Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000045.htm    
                                Description: BleedingÂ is the loss of blood. Bleeding may be:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bleeding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000045.htm

# Bleeding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

BleedingÂ is the loss of blood. Bleeding may be:

    * Inside the body (internally)Â 
    * Outside the body (externally)

Bleeding may occur:

    * Inside the body when blood leaks from blood vessels or organs
    * Outside the body when blood flows through a natural opening (such as the ear, nose, mouth,Â vagina, or rectum)
    * Outside the body when blood moves through a break in the skin

## Considerations

Get emergency medical help for severe bleeding. This is very important if you
think there is internal bleeding.Â Internal bleeding can very quickly become
life threatening. Immediate medical care is needed.

Serious injuries may cause heavy bleeding. Sometimes,Â minor injuries can
bleed a lot. An example is aÂ scalp wound.

You may bleed a lot if you take blood-thinning medicine or have a bleeding
disorder such as hemophilia. Bleeding in such people requires medical
attention right away.

The most important step for external bleeding is to apply direct pressure.
ThisÂ will likely stop most external bleeding.

Always wash your hands before (if possible) and after giving first aid to
someone who is bleeding. This helps prevent infection.

Try to use latex gloves when treating someone who is bleeding. Latex gloves
should be in every first aid kit. People allergic to latex can use nonlatex
gloves. You can catch infections, such asÂ viral hepatitis or HIV/AIDS, if you
touch infected blood and itÂ gets into an open wound,Â even a small one.

Although puncture wounds usually don't bleed very much, they carry a high risk
of infection. Seek medical care to prevent tetanus or other infection.

Abdominal, pelvic, groin, neck,Â and chest wounds can be very serious because
of the possibility of severe internal bleeding. They may not look very
serious, but can result in shockÂ and death.

    * Seek medical care right away for any abdominal, pelvic, groin, neck,Â or chest wound.
    * If organs are showing through the wound, do not try to push them back into place.
    * Cover the injury with a moist cloth or bandage.
    * Apply gentle pressure to stop the bleeding in these areas. 

Blood loss can cause blood to collect under the skin, turning it black and
blue (bruised).Â Apply a cool compress to the area as soon as possible to
reduce swelling. Do not place ice directly on the skin. Wrap the ice in a
towel first.

## Causes

Bleeding can be caused by injuries, orÂ it canÂ be spontaneous. Spontaneous
bleeding most commonlyÂ occurs withÂ problemsÂ in the joints, orÂ
gastrointestinal or urogenital tracts.

## Symptoms

You may have symptoms such as:

    * Blood coming from an open wound
    * Bruising

Bleeding can also cause shock, which mayÂ include any of the following
symptoms:

    * Confusion or decreasing alertness
    * Clammy skin
    * Dizziness or light headedness after an injury
    * Low blood pressure
    * Paleness (pallor)
    * Rapid pulse
    * Increased heart rate
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness

Symptoms of internal bleeding may include:

    * Abdominal pain and swelling
    * Chest pain
    * Skin color changes

Blood coming fromÂ a natural opening in the body may also be a sign of
internal bleeding. These symptoms include:

    * Blood in the stool (appears black, maroon, or bright red)
    * Blood in the urine (appears red, pink, or tea-colored)
    * Blood in the vomit (looks bright red, or brown like coffee-grounds)
    * Vaginal bleeding (heavier than usual or after menopause)

## First Aid

First aid is appropriate for external bleeding. If bleeding is severe, or if
you think there is internal bleeding, or the person is in shock, get emergency
help.

    1. Calm and reassure the person. The sight of blood can be very frightening.
    2. If the wound affects just the top layers of skin (superficial), wash it with soap and warm water and pat dry. Bleeding from superficial wounds or scrapesÂ is often described as oozing, because it is slow.
    3. Lay the person down. This reduces the chances of fainting by increasing blood flow to the brain. When possible, raise up the part of the body that is bleeding.
    4. Remove any loose debris or dirt that you can see from a wound. 
    5. DO NOT remove an objectÂ such as a knife, stick, or arrow that is stuck in the body. Doing so may cause more damage and bleeding. Place pads and bandages around the object and tape the object in place.
    6. Put pressure directly on an outer wound with a sterile bandage, clean cloth, or even a piece of clothing. If nothing else is available, use your hand. Direct pressure is best for external bleeding, except for an eye injury.
    7. Maintain pressure until the bleeding stops. When it has stopped, tightly wrap the wound dressing with adhesive tape or a piece of clean clothing. Do not peek to see if the bleeding has stopped.
    8. If bleeding continues and seeps through the material being held on the wound, do not remove it. Simply place another cloth over the first one. Be sure to seek medical attention right away.
    9. If the bleeding is severe, get medical help right away and take steps to prevent shock. Keep the injured body part completely still. Lay the person flat, raise the feet about 12 inchesÂ or 30 centimeters (cm), and cover the person with a coat or blanket. If possible, DO NOT move the person if there has been a head, neck, back, or leg injury, as doing so may make the injury worse. Get medical help as soon as possible.

WHEN TO USE A TOURNIQUET

If continuous pressure has not stopped the bleeding, and bleeding is extremely
severe (life threatening), a tourniquet can be used until medical help
arrives.

    * The tourniquet should be applied to the limb 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 cm) inches above the bleeding wound. Avoid the joint. If needed, place the tourniquet above the joint, toward the torso.
    * If possible, do not apply the tourniquet directly on the skin. Doing so may twist or pinch the skin and tissues. Use padding or apply the tourniquet over the pant leg or sleeve.
    * If you have a first-aid kit that comes with a tourniquet, apply it to the limb.
    * If you need to make a tourniquet, use bandages 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) wide and wrap them around the limb several times. Tie a half or square knot, leaving loose ends long enough to tie another knot. A stick or a stiff rod should be placed between the two knots. Twist the stick until the bandage is tight enough to stop the bleeding and then secure it in place.
    * Write down or remember the time when the tourniquet was applied. Tell this to medical responders. (Keeping a tourniquet on for too long can injure the nerves and tissues.)

## DO NOT

DO NOT peek at a wound to see if the bleeding is stopping. The less a wound is
disturbed, the more likely it is that you will be able to control the
bleeding.

DO NOT probe a wound or pull out any embedded object from a wound. This will
usually cause more bleeding and harm.

DO NOT remove a dressing if it becomes soaked with blood. Instead, add a new
one on top.

DO NOT try to clean a large wound. This can cause heavier bleeding.

DO NOT try to clean a wound after you get the bleeding under control. Get
medical help.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away if:

    * Bleeding can't be controlled, it required the use of a tourniquet, or it was caused by a serious injury.
    * The wound might need stitches.
    * Gravel or dirt can't be removed easily with gentle cleaning.
    * You think there may be internal bleeding or shock.
    * Signs of infection develop, including increased pain, redness, swelling, yellow or brown fluid, swollen lymph nodes, fever, or red streaks spreading from the site toward the heart.
    * The injury was due to an animal or human bite.
    * The patient has not had a tetanus shot in the last 5 to 10 years.

## Prevention

Use good judgment and keep knives and sharp objects away from small children.

Stay up-to-date on vaccinations.

## Alternative Names

Blood loss; Open injury bleeding

## Images

    * ![Stopping bleeding with direct pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1067t.jpg)Stopping bleeding with direct pressure
    * ![Stopping bleeding with a tourniquet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1068t.jpg)Stopping bleeding with a tourniquet
    * ![Stopping bleeding with pressure and ice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18163t.jpg)Stopping bleeding with pressure and ice

## References

American Red Cross. Traumatic injuries. In: _American Red Cross First
Aid/CPR/AED Participant's Manual._ Yardley, PA: StayWell; 2016:chap 6.

Bulger EM, Snyder D, Schoelles K, et al. An evidence-based prehospital
guideline for external hemorrhage control: American College of Surgeons
Committee on Trauma. _Prehosp Emerg Care._ 2014;18(2):163-173. PMID: 24641269
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24641269.

Simon BC, Hern HG. Wound management principles. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 52.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Wounds and
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WoundsandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Wounds
and Injuries _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

