Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001957.htm    
                                Description: Tooth decay and gum disease are caused by plaque, a sticky combination of bacteria and food. Plaque begins to build up on teeth within a few minutes after eating. If teeth are not cleaned well each day,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dental care - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001957.htm

# Dental care - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tooth decay and gum disease are caused by plaque, a sticky combination of
bacteria and food. Plaque begins to build up on teeth within a few minutes
after eating. If teeth are not cleaned well each day, plaque will lead to
tooth decay or gum disease. If you do not remove plaque, it turns into a hard
deposit called tartar that becomes trapped at the base of the tooth. Plaque
and tartar irritate and inflame the gums. Bacteria and the toxins they produce
cause the gums to become:

    * Infected
    * Swollen
    * Tender 

By taking good care of your teeth and gums, you can help prevent problems such
as tooth decay and gum disease (gingivitis or periodontitis). You should also
teach your children how to brush and floss from an early age to help them
protect their teeth.

Plaque and tartar lead to a number of problems:

    * Cavities are holes that damage the structure of teeth.
    * Gingivitis is swollen, inflamed, and bleeding gums,
    * Periodontitis is the destruction of the ligaments and bone that support the teeth, often leading to tooth loss.
    * Bad breath (halitosis).
    * Abscesses, pain, inability to use your teeth.
    * Other health problems outside the mouth, ranging from preterm labor to heart disease.

## Information

HOW TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR TEETH

Healthy teeth are clean and have no cavities. Healthy gums are pink and firm.
To maintain healthy teeth and gums, follow these steps:

    * Floss at least once per day. It is best to floss before brushing. Flossing removes plaque from between the teeth and on the gums.
    * Brush your teeth twice a day with a soft-bristled toothbrush. Brush 2 minutes each time.
    * Use fluoride toothpaste. The fluoride helps strengthen tooth enamel and helps prevent tooth decay.
    * Replace your toothbrush every 3 to 4 months or sooner if needed. A worn-out toothbrush will not clean your teeth as well.
    * Eat a healthy diet. You are less likely to get gum disease if you eat healthy foods.
    * Avoid sweets and sweetened drinks. Eating and drinking a lot of sweets increases your risk of cavities. If you do eat or drink sweets, brush your teeth soon after.
    * DO NOT smoke. Smokers have more teeth and gum problems than non-smokers.
    * Keep dentures, retainers, and other appliances clean. This includes brushing them regularly. You may also need to soak them in a cleansing solution.
    * Schedule regular checkups with your dentist. Many dentists recommend having the teeth professionally cleaned every 6 months. 

Regular teeth cleaning by a dentist removes plaque that may develop, even with
careful brushing and flossing. This is very important for getting at areas
that are hard to reach on your own. Professional cleaning includes scaling and
polishing. This procedure uses instruments to loosen and remove deposits from
the teeth. Routine exams may include dental x-rays. Your dentist can catch
problems early, so they do not become more serious and expensive to fix.

Ask your dentist:

    * What kind of toothbrush you should use, and how to brush your teeth well. Ask if an electric tooth brush is right for you. Electric tooth brushes have been shown to clean teeth better than manual toothbrushes. They often also have a timer to let you know when you have reached the 2 minute mark.
    * How to properly floss your teeth. Overly vigorous or improper flossing may injure the gums.
    * Whether you should use any special appliances or tools, such as water irrigation. This may sometimes help supplement (but not replace) brushing and flossing.
    * Whether you could benefit from particular toothpastes or mouth rinses. In some cases, over-the-counter pastes and rinses may be doing you more harm than good, depending on your condition. 

WHEN TO CALL THE DENTIST

Call your dentist if you have symptoms of a cavity that include:

    * Pain in the tooth that occurs for no reason or is caused by food, beverages, brushing or flossing
    * Sensitivity to hot or cold foods or drinks 

Get early treatment for gum disease. Call your dentist if you have symptoms of
gum disease that include:

    * Red or swollen gums
    * Bleeding in the gums when you brush your teeth
    * Bad breath
    * Loose teeth 
    * Drifting teeth

## Alternative Names

Teeth - caring for; Oral hygiene; Dental hygiene

## References

American Dental Association website. Adults under 40.
www.mouthhealthy.org/en/adults-under-40. Accessed April 20, 2016.

Chow AW. Infections of the oral cavity, neck, and head. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 65.

Stefanac SJ. Developing the treatment plan. In: Stefanac SJ, Nesbit SP, eds.
_Diagnosis and Treatment Planning in Dentistry_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 4.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bad Breath](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Badbreath_thumb.jpg)Bad Breath
_Read more_

![Dental Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Dental
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

