Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002982.htm    
                                Description: A skin graft is a patch of skin that is removed by surgery from one area of the body and transplanted, or attached, to another area.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin graft

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002982.htm

# Skin graft

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin graft is a patch of skin that is removed by surgery from one area of
the body and transplanted, or attached, to another area.

## Description

This surgery is usually done while you are under general anesthesia. That
means you will be asleep and pain-free.

Healthy skin is taken from a place on your body called the donor site. Most
people who are having a skin graft have a split-thickness skin graft. This
takes the two top layers of skin from the donor site (the epidermis) and the
layer under the epidermis (the dermis).

The donor site can be any area of the body. Most times, it is an area that is
hidden by clothes, such as the buttock or inner thigh.

The graft is carefully spread on the bare area where it is being transplanted.
It is held in place either by gentle pressure from a well-padded dressing that
covers it, or by staples or a few small stitches. The donor-site area is
covered with a sterile dressing for 3 to 5 days.

People with deeper tissue loss may need a full-thickness skin graft. This
requires an entire thickness of skin from the donor site, not just the top two
layers.

A full-thickness skin graft is a more complicated procedure. Common donor
sites for full-thickness skin grafts include the chest wall, back, or
abdominal wall.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Skin grafts may be recommended for:

    * Areas where there has been infection that caused a large amount of skin loss
    * Burns
    * Cosmetic reasons or reconstructive surgeries where there has been skin damage or skin loss
    * Skin cancer surgery
    * Surgeries that need skin grafts to heal
    * Venous ulcers, pressure ulcers, or diabetic ulcers that do not heal
    * Very large wounds
    * A wound that the surgeon has not been able to close properly 

Full-thickness grafts are done when a lot of tissue is lost. This can happen
with open fractures of the lower leg, or after severe infections.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Problems with breathing
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Chronic pain (rarely)
    * Infection
    * Loss of grafted skin (the graft not healing, or the graft healing slowly)
    * Reduced or lost skin sensation, or increased sensitivity
    * Scarring
    * Skin discoloration
    * Uneven skin surface 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon or nurse:

    * What medicines you are taking, even drugs or herbs you bought without a prescription.
    * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol.

During the days before surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen, warfarin (Coumadin), and others. 
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking increases your chance of problems such as slow healing. Ask your health care provider for help quitting.

On the day of the surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.

## After the Procedure

You should recover quickly after split-thickness skin grafting. Full-thickness
grafts need a longer recovery time. If you received this kind of graft, you
may need to stay in the hospital for 1 to 2 weeks.

After you are discharged from the hospital, follow instructions on how to care
for your skin graft, including:

    * Wearing a dressing for 1 to 2 weeks. Ask your provider how you should care for the dressing, such as protecting it from getting wet.
    * Protecting the graft from trauma for 3 to 4 weeks. This includes avoiding being hit or doing any exercise that might injure or stretch the graft.
    * Getting physical therapy, if your surgeon recommends it. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most skin grafts are successful, but some do not heal well. You may need a
second graft.

## Alternative Names

Skin transplant; Skin autografting; FTSG; STSG; Split thickness skin graft;
Full thickness skin graft

## Patient Instructions

    * Preventing pressure ulcers
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Skin graft](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19083t.jpg)Skin graft
    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers
    * ![Skin graft - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10303t.jpg)Skin graft - series

## References

McGrath MH, Pomerantz JH. Plastic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 68.

Ratner D, Nayyar PM. Grafts, In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 148.

Scherer-Pietramaggiori SS, Pietramaggiori G, Orgill DP. Skin graft. In:
Gurtner GC, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery, Volume 1: Principles_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 15.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Burns](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Burns_thumb.jpg)Burns _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

