Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000059.htm    
                                Description: Chemicals that touch skin can lead to a reaction on the skin, throughout the body, or both.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chemical burn or reaction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000059.htm

# Chemical burn or reaction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chemicals that touch skin can lead to a reaction on the skin, throughout the
body, or both.

## Considerations

Chemical exposure is not always obvious. You should suspect chemical exposure
if an otherwise healthy person becomes ill for no apparent reason,
particularly if an empty chemical container is found nearby.

Exposure to chemicals at work over a long period of time can cause changing
symptoms as the chemical builds up in the person's body.

If the person has a chemical in the eyes, see first aid for eye emergencies.

If the person has swallowed or inhaled a dangerous chemical, call a local
poison control center at 1-800-222-1222.

## Symptoms

Depending on the type of exposure, the symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Bright red or bluish skin and lips
    * Convulsions (seizures)
    * Dizziness
    * Eye pain, burning or watering
    * Headache
    * Hives, itching, swelling, or weakness resulting from an allergic reaction
    * Irritability
    * Nausea and/or vomiting
    * Pain where the skin has come in contact with the toxic substance
    * Rash, blisters, burns on the skin
    * Unconsciousness or other states of altered level of consciousness 

## First Aid

    * Make sure the cause of the burn has been removed. Try not to come in contact with it yourself. If the chemical is dry, brush off any excess. Avoid brushing it into your eyes. Remove any clothing and jewelry.
    * Flush the chemicals off the skin surface using cool running water for 15 minutes or more UNLESS the chemical exposure is to dry lime (calcium oxide, also called 'quick lime') or to elemental metals such as sodium, potassium, magnesium, phosphorous, and lithium.
    * Treat the person for shock if they appear faint, pale, or if there is shallow, rapid breathing.
    * Apply cool, wet compresses to relieve pain.
    * Wrap the burned area with a dry sterile dressing (if possible) or clean cloth. Protect the burned area from pressure and friction.
    * Minor chemical burns will most often heal without further treatment. However, if there is a second or third degree burn or if there is an overall body reaction, get medical help right away. In severe cases, don't leave the person alone and watch carefully for reactions affecting the entire body.

Note: If a chemical gets into the eyes, the eyes should be flushed with water
right away. Continue to flush the eyes with running water for at least 15
minutes. Get medical help right away.

## DO NOT

    * DO NOT apply any household remedy such as ointment or salve to a chemical burn.
    * DO NOT become contaminated by the chemical as you give first aid.
    * DO NOT disturb a blister or remove dead skin from a chemical burn.
    * DO NOT try to neutralize any chemical without consulting the poison control center or a doctor.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for medical helpÂ right awayÂ if the person is having difficulty
breathing, is having seizures, or is unconscious.

## Prevention

    * All chemicals should be stored out of the reach of young children -- preferably in a locked cabinet.
    * Avoid mixing different products that contain toxic chemicals such as ammonia and bleach. The mixture can give off hazardous fumes.
    * Avoid prolonged (even low-level) exposure to chemicals.
    * Avoid using potentially toxic substances in the kitchen or around food.
    * Buy potentially poisonous substance in safety containers, and buy only as much as needed.
    * Many household products are made of toxic chemicals. It is important to read and follow label instructions, including any precautions.
    * Never store household products in food or drink containers. Leave them in their original containers with the labels intact.
    * Safely store chemicals immediately after use.
    * Use paints, petroleum products, ammonia, bleach, and other products that give off fumes only in a well-ventilated area.

## Alternative Names

Burn from chemicals

## Images

    * ![Burns](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1078t.jpg)Burns
    * ![First aid kit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17065t.jpg)First aid kit
    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Levine MD. Chemical injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 57.

Mazzeo AS, Price LA, Gerold KB. Burn care procedures. In: Roberts JR, ed.
_Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services / Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Burns](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Burns_thumb.jpg)Burns _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

