Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000662.htm    
                                Description: You can care for minor burns at home with simple first aid. There are different levels of burns.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Minor burns - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000662.htm

# Minor burns - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You can care for minor burns at home with simple first aid. There are
different levels of burns.

First-degree burns are only on the top layer of the skin. The skin can:

    * Turn red
    * Swell
    * Be painful

Second-degree burns go one layer deeper than first-degree burns. The skin
will:

    * Blister
    * Turn red
    * Usually swell
    * Usually be painful

Treat a burn like a major burn (call your doctor) if it is:

    * From a fire, an electrical wire or socket, or chemicals
    * Larger than 2 inches (5 centimeters)
    * On the hand, foot, face, groin, buttocks, hip, knee, ankle, shoulder, elbow, or wrist

## First aid for Minor Burns

First, calm and reassure the person who is burned.

If clothing is not stuck to the burn, remove it. If the burn is caused by
chemicals, take off all clothes that have the chemical on them.

Cool the burn:

    * Use cool water, not ice. The extreme cold from ice can injure the tissue even more.
    * If possible, particularly if the burn is caused by chemicals, hold the burned skin under cool running water for 10 to 15 minutes until it does not hurt as much. Use a sink, shower, or garden hose.
    * If this is not possible, put a cool, clean wet cloth on the burn, or soak the burn in a cool water bath for 5 minutes.

## Caring for Burns

After the burn is cooled, make sure it is a minor burn. If it is deeper,
larger, or on the hand, foot, face, groin, buttocks, hip, knee, ankle,
shoulder, elbow, or wrist, seek medical care right away.

If it is a minor burn:

    * Clean the burn gently with soap and water.
    * DO NOT break blisters. An opened blister can get infected.
    * You may put a thin layer of ointment, such as petroleum jelly or aloe vera, on the burn. The ointment does not need to have antibiotics in it. Some antibiotic ointments can cause an allergic reaction. DO NOT use cream, lotion, oil, cortisone, butter, or egg white.
    * If needed, protect the burn from rubbing and pressure with a sterile non-stick gauze (petrolatum or Adaptic-type) lightly taped or wrapped over it. DO NOT use a dressing that can shed fibers, because they can get caught in the burn. Change the dressing once a day.
    * For pain, take an over-the-counter pain medicine. These include acetaminophen (such as Tylenol), ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin), naproxen (such as Aleve), and aspirin. Follow the directions on the bottle. DO NOT give aspirin to children under age 2 years, or anyone 18 or younger who has or is recovering from chickenpox or flu symptoms.

## What to Expect

Minor burns could take up to 3 weeks to heal.

A burn can itch as it heals. DO NOT scratch it.

The deeper the burn, the more likely it is to scar. If the burn appears to be
developing a scar, call your health care provider for advice.

## When to Call the Doctor

Burns are susceptible to tetanus. This means tetanus bacteria can enter your
body through the burn. If your last tetanus shot was more than 5 years ago,
call your provider. You may need a booster shot.

Call your provider if you have signs of infection:

    * Increased pain
    * Redness
    * Swelling
    * Oozing or pus
    * Fever
    * Swollen lymph nodes
    * Red streak from the burn

## Alternative Names

Partial thickness burns - aftercare; Minor burns - self-care

## References

Mazzeo AS. Burn care procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds.
_Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 38.

Singer AJ, Lee CC. Thermal burns. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 56.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Burns

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

