Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003917.htm    
                                Description: Endometrial biopsy is the removal of a small piece of tissue from the lining of the uterus (endometrium) for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endometrial biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003917.htm

# Endometrial biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endometrial biopsy is the removal of a small piece of tissue from the lining
of the uterus (endometrium) for examination.

## How the Test is Performed

This procedure may be done with or without anesthesia. This is medicine that
allows you to sleep during the procedure.

    * You lie on your back with your feet in stirrups, similar to having a pelvic exam.
    * Your health care provider gently inserts an instrument (speculum) into the vagina to hold it open so that your cervix can be viewed. The cervix is cleaned with a special liquid. Numbing medicine may be applied to the cervix.
    * The cervix may then be gently grasped with an instrument to hold the uterus steady. Another instrument may be needed to gently stretch the cervical opening if there is tightness.
    * An instrument is gently passed through the cervix into the uterus to collect the tissue sample.
    * The tissue sample and instruments are removed.
    * The tissue is sent to a lab. There, it is examined under a microscope.
    * If you had anesthesia for the procedure, you are taken to a recovery area. Nurses will make sure you are comfortable. After you wake up and have no problems from the anesthesia and procedure, you are allowed to go home. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Before the test:

    * Tell your provider about all the medicines you take. These include blood thinners such as warfarin, clopidogrel, and aspirin.
    * You may be asked to have a test to make sure you are not pregnant.
    * In the 2 days before the procedure, do not use creams or other medicines in the vagina.
    * Do NOT douche. (You should never douche. Douching can cause infection of the vagina or uterus.)
    * Ask your provider if you should take pain medicine, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen, just before the procedure. 

## How the Test will Feel

The instruments may feel cold. You may feel some cramping when the cervix is
grasped. You may have some mild cramping as the instruments enter the uterus
and the sample is collected. The discomfort is mild, though for some women it
can be severe. However, the duration of the test and the pain are short.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to find the cause of:

    * Abnormal menstrual periods (heavy, prolonged, or irregular bleeding)
    * Bleeding after menopause
    * Bleeding from taking hormone therapy medicines
    * Thickened uterine lining seen on ultrasound
    * Endometrial cancer

## Normal Results

The biopsy is normal if the cells in the sample are not abnormal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal menstrual periods may be caused by:

    * Uterine fibroids
    * Fingerlike growths in the uterus (uterine polyps)
    * Infection
    * Hormone imbalance
    * Endometrial cancer or precancer (hyperplasia)

Other conditions under which the test may be performed:

    * Abnormal bleeding if a woman is taking the breast cancer medicine tamoxifen
    * Abnormal bleeding due to changes in hormone levels (anovulatory bleeding)

## Risks

Risks for endometrial biopsy include:

    * Infection
    * Causing a hole in (perforating) the uterus or tearing the cervix (rarely occurs)
    * Prolonged bleeding
    * Slight spotting and mild cramping for a few days

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - endometrium

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Endometrial biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17059t.jpg)Endometrial biopsy
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Endometrial biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9638t.jpg)Endometrial biopsy

## References

Beard JM, Osborn J. Common office procedures. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 28.

Soliman PT, Lu KH. Neoplastic diseases of the uterus: endometrial hyperplasia,
endometrial carcinoma, sarcoma: diagnosis and management. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Menstruation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menstruation_thumb.jpg)Menstruation
_Read more_

![Uterine
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineCancer2_thumb.jpg)Uterine Cancer
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

