Link: https://medlineplus.gov/wilsondisease.html    
                                Description: Wilson disease is a disorder that prevents your body from getting rid of extra copper. Too much copper can affect the liver and nervous system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Wilson Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/wilsondisease.html

#  Wilson Disease

Also called: Copper storage disease, Hepatolenticular degeneration

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Wilson disease is a rare inherited disorder that prevents your body from
getting rid of extra copper. You need a small amount of copper from food to
stay healthy. Too much copper is poisonous.

Normally, your liver releases extra copper into bile, a digestive fluid. With
Wilson disease, the copper builds up in your liver, and it releases the copper
directly into your bloodstream. This can cause damage to your brain, kidneys,
and eyes.

Wilson disease is present at birth, but symptoms usually start between ages 5
and 35. It first attacks the liver, the central nervous system or both. The
most characteristic sign is a rusty brown ring around the cornea of the eye. A
physical exam and laboratory tests can diagnose it.

Treatment is with drugs to remove the extra copper from your body. You need to
take medicine and follow a low-copper diet for the rest of your life. Don't
eat shellfish or liver, as these foods may contain high levels of copper. At
the beginning of treatment, you'll also need to avoid chocolate, mushrooms,
and nuts. Have your drinking water checked for copper content and don't take
multivitamins that contain copper.

With early detection and proper treatment, you can enjoy good health.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Wilson Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Wilson Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Wilson Disease: Frequently Asked Questions (Wilson's Disease Association)
  * Wilson's Disease (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Ceruloplasmin Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Copper Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * How Is Wilson Disease Diagnosed? (Wilson's Disease Association)
  * Kayser-Fleischer Rings (Wilson's Disease Association)

## Living With

  * Diet and Nutrition (Wilson's Disease Association)
  * Lab Tracker and Copper Calculator (Wilson's Disease Association)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: Wilson disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * How Is Wilson Disease Inherited? (Wilson's Disease Association)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hepatolenticular Degeneration ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Relationship between genetic mutations and clinical phenotypes in patients with Wilson...
  * Article: Teaching Video NeuroImages: Slow periodic myoclonus in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis and...
  * Article: Oxidative hemolysis due to Wilson disease.
  * Wilson Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Find a Liver Expert (American College of Gastroenterology)
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * 24-hour urine copper test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Ceruloplasmin (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Wilson disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Wilson Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WilsonDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * 24-hour urine copper test
  * Ceruloplasmin
  * Wilson disease

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Wilson Disease is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 21 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 6 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

