Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003840.htm    
                                Description: A skin lesion biopsy is when a small amount of skin is removed so it can be examined. The skin is tested to look for skin conditions or diseases. A skin biopsy can help your health care provider diagnose    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin lesion biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003840.htm

# Skin lesion biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin lesion biopsy is when a small amount of skin is removed so it can be
examined. The skin is tested to look for skin conditions or diseases. A skin
biopsy can help your health care provider diagnose or rule out problems such
as skin cancer or psoriasis.

## How the Test is Performed

Most procedures can be done in your provider's office or an outpatient medical
office. There are several ways to do a skin biopsy. Which procedure you have
depends on the location, size, and type of lesion. A lesion is an abnormal
area of the skin. This can be a lump, sore, or an area of skin color that is
not normal.

Before a biopsy, your provider will numb the area of skin so you don't feel
anything. The different types of skin biopsies are described below.

SHAVE BIOPSY

    * Your provider uses a small blade or razor to remove or scrape the outermost layers of skin.
    * All or part of the lesion is removed.
    * You will not need stitches. This procedure will leave a small indented area.
    * This type of biopsy is often done when a skin cancer is suspected, or a rash that seems to be limited to the top layer of skin. 

PUNCH BIOPSY

    * Your provider uses a cookie cutter-like skin punch tool to remove deeper layers of skin. The area removed is about the shape and size of a pencil eraser.
    * If an infection or immune disorder is suspected, your provider may perform more than one biopsy. One of the biopsies is examined under the microscope, the other is sent to the lab for testing such as for germs (skin culture).
    * It includes all or part of the lesion. You may have stitches to close the area.
    * This type of biopsy is often done to diagnose rashes. 

EXCISIONAL BIOPSY

    * A surgeon uses a surgical knife (scalpel) to remove the entire lesion. This may include deep layers of skin and fat.
    * The area is closed with stitches to place the skin back together.
    * If a large area is biopsied, the surgeon may use a skin graft or flap to replace the skin that was removed.
    * This type of biopsy is most commonly done when a kind of skin cancer called melanoma is suspected. 

INCISIONAL BIOPSY

    * This procedure takes a piece of a large lesion.
    * A piece of the growth is cut and sent to the lab for examination. You may have stitches, if needed.
    * After diagnosis, the rest of the growth can be treated.
    * This type of biopsy is most commonly done to help diagnose skin ulcers or diseases that involve the tissue below the skin, such as the fatty tissue. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider:

    * About the medicines you are taking, including vitamins and supplements, herbal remedies, and over-the-counter medicines
    * If you have any allergies
    * If you have bleeding problems or take a blood thinner drug such as aspirin, warfarin, clopidogrel, dabigatran, apixaban, or other drugs
    * If you are or think you might be pregnant

Follow your provider's instructions on how to prepare for the biopsy.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order a skin biopsy:

    * To diagnose the cause of a skin rash
    * To make sure a skin growth or skin lesion is not skin cancer  

## Normal Results

The tissue that was removed is examined under a microscope. Results are most
often returned in a few days to a week or more.

If a skin lesion is benign (not cancer), you may notÂ need any further
treatment. If the whole skin lesion was not removed at the time of biopsy, you
and your provider may decide to completely remove it.  

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Once the biopsy confirms the diagnosis, your provider will start a treatment
plan. A few of the skin problems that may be diagnosed are:

    * PsoriasisÂ or dermatitis
    * Infection from bacteria or fungus
    * Melanoma
    * Basal cell skin cancer
    * Squamous cell skin cancer

## Risks

Risks of a skin biopsy may include:

    * Infection
    * Scar or keloids

You will bleed slightly during the procedure.

## Considerations

You will go home with a bandage over the area. The biopsy area may be tender
for a few days afterward. You may have a small amount of bleeding.

Depending on what type of biopsy you had, you will be given instructions on
how to care for:

    * The skin biopsy area
    * Stitches, if you have them
    * Skin graft or flap, if you have one

The goal is to keep the area clean and dry. Be careful not to bump or stretch
the skin near the area, which can cause bleeding. If you have stitches, they
will be taken out in about 3 to 14 days.

If you have moderate bleeding, apply pressure to the area for 10 minutes or
so. If the bleeding does not stop, call your provider right away. You should
also call your provider if you have signs of infection, such as:

    * More redness, swelling, or pain
    * Drainage coming from or around the incision that is thick, tan, green, or yellow, or smells bad (pus)
    * Fever

Once the wound heals, you may have a scar.

## Alternative Names

Skin biopsy; Shave biopsy - skin; Punch biopsy - skin; Excisional biopsy -
skin; Incisional biopsy - skin; Skin cancer - biopsy; Melanoma - biopsy;
Squamous cell cancer - biopsy; Basal cell cancer - biopsy

## Images

    * ![Basal Cell Carcinoma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3188t.jpg)Basal Cell Carcinoma - close-up
    * ![Melanoma - neck](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3200t.jpg)Melanoma - neck
    * ![Skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19679t.jpg)Skin

## References

Dinulos JGH. Dermatologic surgical procedures. In: Dinulos JGH, ed. _Habif's
Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2021:chap 27.

High WA, Tomasini CF, Argenziano G, Zalaudek I. Basic principles of
dermatology. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 0.

Pfenninger JL. Skin biopsy. In: Fowler GC, eds. _Pfenninger and Fowler's
Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
26.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Skin Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinCancer_thumb.jpg)Skin Cancer
_Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

