Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003928.htm    
                                Description: A nerve biopsy is the removal of a small piece of a nerve for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nerve biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003928.htm

# Nerve biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nerve biopsy is the removal of a small piece of a nerve for examination.

## How the Test is Performed

A nerve biopsy is most often done on a nerve in the ankle, forearm, or along a
rib.

The health care provider applies medicine to numb the area before the
procedure. The doctor makes a small surgical cut and removes a piece of the
nerve. The cut is then closed and a bandage is put on it. The nerve sample is
sent to a lab, where it is examined under a microscope.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your provider's instructions on how to prepare for the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

When the numbing medicine (local anesthetic) is injected, you will feel a
prick and a mild sting. The biopsy siteÂ may be sore for a few days after the
test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Nerve biopsy may be done to help diagnose:

    * Axon degeneration (destruction of the axon portion of the nerve cell)
    * Damage to the small nerves
    * Demyelination (destruction of parts of the myelin sheath covering the nerve) 
    * Inflammatory nerve conditions (neuropathies)

Conditions for which the test may be done include any of the following:

    * Alcoholic neuropathy (damage to nerves from excessive drinking of alcohol)
    * Axillary nerve dysfunction (damage to the shoulder nerve that leads to a loss of movement or sensation in the shoulder)
    * Brachial plexopathy (damage to the brachial plexus, an area on each side of the neck where nerve roots from the spinal cord split into each arm's nerves)
    * Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (inherited group of disorders that affect the nerves outside the brain and spine)
    * Common peroneal nerve dysfunction (damage to the peroneal nerve leading to loss of movement or sensation in the foot and leg)
    * Distal median nerve dysfunction (damage to the median nerve leading to loss of movement or sensation in the hands)
    * Mononeuritis multiplex (disorder that involves damage to at least two separate nerve areas)
    * Necrotizing vasculitis (group of disorders that involve inflammation of the blood vessel walls)
    * Neurosarcoidosis (complication of sarcoidosis, in which inflammation occurs in the brain, spinal cord, and other areas of the nervous system)
    * Radial nerve dysfunction (damage to the radial nerve leading to loss of movement or sensation in the arm, wrist or hand)
    * Tibial nerve dysfunction (damage to the tibial nerve leading to loss of movement or sensation in the foot)

## Normal Results

A normal result means the nerve appears normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Amyloidosis (sural nerve biopsy is most often used)
    * Demyelination
    * Inflammation of the nerve
    * Leprosy
    * Loss of axon tissue
    * Metabolic neuropathies (nerve disorders that occur with diseases that disrupt the chemical processes in the body)
    * Necrotizing vasculitis 
    * Sarcoidosis

## Risks

Risks of the procedure may include:

    * Allergic reaction to the local anesthetic
    * Discomfort after the procedure
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
    * Permanent nerve damage (uncommon; minimized by careful site selection)

Nerve biopsy is invasive and is useful only in certain situations. Talk to
your provider about your options.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - nerve

## Images

    * ![Nerve biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9742t.jpg)Nerve biopsy

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Nerve biopsy - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:814-815.

Midha R, Elmadhoun TMI. Peripheral nerve examination, evaluation, and biopsy.
In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 245.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

