Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003856.htm    
                                Description: Upper airway biopsy is surgery to remove a small piece of tissue from the nose, mouth, and throat area. The tissue will be examined under the microscope by a pathologist.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Upper airway biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003856.htm

# Upper airway biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Upper airway biopsy is surgery to remove a small piece of tissue from the
nose, mouth, and throat area. The tissue will be examined under the microscope
by a pathologist.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider will spray a numbing medicine in your mouth and
throat. A metal tube is inserted to hold your tongue out of the way.

Another numbing medicine flows through the tube down the back of the throat.
This may cause you to cough at first. When the area feels thick or swollen, it
is numb.

The provider looks at the abnormal area, and removes a small piece of tissue.
It is sent to the laboratory for examination.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT eat for 6 to 12 hours before the test.

Tell your provider if you take a blood thinner, such as aspirin, clopidogrel,
or warfarin, when you schedule the biopsy. You may need to stop taking them
for a little while. Never stop taking any medicines without first talking to
your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

As the area is being numbed, you may feel like there is fluid running down the
back of your throat. You may feel the need to cough or gag. And you may feel
pressure or mild tugging.

When the numbness wears off, your throat may feel scratchy for several days.
After the test, the cough reflex will return in 1 to 2 hours. Then you may eat
and drink normally.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done if your provider thinks there is a problem with your
upper airway. It may also be done with a bronchoscopy.

## Normal Results

The upper airway tissues are normal, with no abnormal growths.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Disorders or conditions that may be discovered include:

    * Benign (noncancerous) cysts or masses
    * Cancer
    * Certain infections
    * Granulomas and related inflammation (may be caused by tuberculosis)
    * Autoimmune disorders, such asÂ granulomatosis with polyangiitis
    * Necrotizing vasculitis

## Risks

Risks for this procedure include:

    * Bleeding (some bleeding is common, heavy bleeding is not)
    * Breathing difficulties
    * Sore throat 

There is a risk of choking if you swallow water or food before the numbness
wears off.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - upper airway

## Images

    * ![Upper airway test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10003t.jpg)Upper airway test
    * ![Bronchoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1077t.jpg)Bronchoscopy
    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy

## References

Frew AJ, Doffman SR, Hurt K, Buxton-Thomas R. Respiratory disease. In: Kumar
P, Clark M, eds. _Kumar and Clark's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Mason JC. Rheumatic diseases and the cardiovascular system. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 94.

Yung RC, Flint PW. Tracheobronchial endoscopy. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 72.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![Sarcoidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sarcoidosis_thumb.jpg)Sarcoidosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

