Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003908.htm    
                                Description: Testicular biopsy is surgery to remove a piece of tissue from the testicles. The tissue is examined under a microscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicular biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003908.htm

# Testicular biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testicular biopsy is surgery to remove a piece of tissue from the testicles.
The tissue is examined under a microscope.

## How the Test is Performed

The biopsy can be done in many ways. The type of biopsy you have depends on
the reason for the test. Your health care provider will talk to you about your
options.

Open biopsy may be done in the provider's office, a surgical center, or at a
hospital. The skin over the testicle is cleaned with a germ-killing
(antiseptic) medicine. The area around it is covered with a sterile towel. A
local anesthetic is given to numb the area.

A small surgical cut is made through the skin. A small piece of the testicle
tissue is removed. The opening in the testicle is closed with a stich. Another
stitch closes the cut in the skin. The procedure is repeated for the other
testicle if necessary.

Needle biopsy is most often done in the provider's office. The area is cleaned
and local anesthesia is used, just as in the open biopsy. A sample of the
testicle is taken using a special needle. The procedure does not require a cut
in the skin.

Depending on the reason for the test, a needle biopsy may not be possible or
recommended.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you not to take aspirin or medicines that contain
aspirin for 1 week before the procedure. Always ask your provider before
stopping any medicines.

## How the Test will Feel

There will be a sting when the anesthetic is given. You should only feel
pressure or discomfort similar to a pinprick during the biopsy.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is most often done to find the cause of male infertility. It is done
when a semen analysis suggests that there is abnormal sperm and other tests
have not found the cause. In some cases, sperm obtained from a testicular
biopsy can be used to fertilize a woman's egg in the lab. This process is
called in vitro fertilization.

## Normal Results

Sperm development appears normal. No cancerous cells are found.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean a problem with sperm or hormone function. Biopsy may
be able to find the cause of the problem.

In some cases, the sperm development appears normal in the testicle, but semen
analysis shows no sperm or reduced sperm. This may indicate a blockage of the
tube through which the sperm travel from the testes to the urethra. This
blockage can sometimes be repaired with surgery.

Other causes of abnormal results:

    * A cyst-like lump filled with fluid and dead sperm cells (spermatocele)
    * Orchitis

Your provider will explain and discuss all abnormal results with you.

## Risks

There is a slight risk for bleeding or infection. The area may be sore for 2
to 3 days after the biopsy. The scrotum may swell or become discolored. This
should clear up within a few days.

## Considerations

Your provider may suggest that you wear an athletic supporter for several days
after the biopsy. In most cases, you will need to avoid sexual activity for 1
to 2 weeks.

Using a cold pack on and off for the first 24 hours may lessen the swelling
and discomfort.

Keep the area dry for several days after the procedure.

Continue to avoid using aspirin or medicines that contain aspirin for 1 week
after the procedure.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - testicle

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Testicular biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8960t.jpg)Testicular biopsy

## References

Chiles KA, Schlegel PN. Sperm retrieval. In: Smith JA Jr, Howards SS,
Preminger GM, Dmochowski RR, eds. _Hinman's Atlas of Urologic Surgery_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 107.

Garibaldi LR, Chematilly W. Disorders of pubertal development. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 562.

Niederberger CS. Male infertility. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters
CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Male
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MaleInfertlity_thumb.jpg)Male
Infertility _Read more_

![Testicular
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularCancer_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

