Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003925.htm    
                                Description: Carpal tunnel biopsy is a test in which a small piece of tissue is removed from the carpal tunnel (part of the wrist).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carpal tunnel biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003925.htm

# Carpal tunnel biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carpal tunnel biopsy is a test in which a small piece of tissue is removed
from the carpal tunnel (part of the wrist).

## How the Test is Performed

The skin of your wrist isÂ cleansed and injected with medicine that numbs the
area. Through a small cut, a sample of tissue is removed from the carpal
tunnel. This is done by direct removal of tissue or by needle aspiration.

Sometimes this procedure isÂ done at the same time as carpal tunnel release.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow instructions for not eating or drinking anything for a few hours before
the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some stinging or burning when the numbing medicine is injected.
You may also feel some pressure or tugging during the procedure. Afterward,
the area may be tender or sore for a few days.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is often done to see if you have a condition called amyloidosis. It
is not usually done to relieve carpal tunnel syndrome. However, a person with
amyloidosis can have carpal tunnel syndrome.

Carpal tunnel syndrome is a condition in which there is excessive pressure on
the median nerve. This is the nerve in the wrist that allows feeling and
movement to parts of the hand. Carpal tunnel syndrome can lead to numbness,
tingling, weakness, or muscle damage in the hand and fingers.

## Normal Results

No abnormal tissues are found.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that you have amyloidosis. Other medical treatment
will be needed for this condition.

## Risks

Risks of this procedure include:

    * Bleeding
    * Damage to the nerve in this area
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - carpal tunnel

## Images

    * ![Carpal tunnel syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1081t.jpg)Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * ![Surface anatomy - normal palm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1759t.jpg)Surface anatomy - normal palm
    * ![Surface anatomy - normal wrist](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1762t.jpg)Surface anatomy - normal wrist
    * ![Carpal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8635t.jpg)Carpal biopsy

## References

Calandruccio JH. Carpal tunnel syndrome, ulnar tunnel syndrome, and stenosing
tenosynovitis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative
Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 76.

Hawkins PN. Amyloidosis. In: Hochberg MC, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME,
Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
177.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amyloidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amyloidosis_thumb.jpg)Amyloidosis
_Read more_

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Carpal Tunnel
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarpalTunnelSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Carpal
Tunnel Syndrome _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

