Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003907.htm    
                                Description: A kidney biopsy is the removal of a small piece of kidney tissue for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kidney biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003907.htm

# Kidney biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A kidney biopsy is the removal of a small piece of kidney tissue for
examination.

## How the Test is Performed

A kidney biopsy is done in the hospital. TheÂ two most common ways to do a
kidney biopsy are percutaneous and open. These are described below.

 **Percutaneous biopsy**

Percutaneous means through the skin. Most kidney biopsies are done this way.
The procedure is usually done in the following way:

    * You may receive medicine to make you drowsy.
    * You lie on your stomach. If you have a transplanted kidney, you lie on your back.
    * The doctor marks the spot on the skin where the biopsy needle is inserted.
    * The skin is cleaned.
    * Numbing medicine (anesthetic) is injected under the skin near the kidney area.
    * The doctor makes a tiny cut in the skin. Ultrasound images are used to find the proper location. Sometimes another imaging method, such as CT, is used.
    * The doctor inserts a biopsy needle through the skin to the surface of the kidney. You are asked to take and hold a deep breath as the needle goes into the kidney.
    * If the doctor is not using ultrasound guidance, you may be asked to take several deep breaths. This allows the doctor to know the needle is in place.
    * The needle may be inserted more than once if more than one tissue sample is needed.
    * The needle is removed. Pressure is applied to the biopsy site to stop any bleeding.
    * After the procedure, a bandage is applied to the biopsy site.

 **Open biopsy**

In some cases, your doctor may recommend a surgical biopsy. This method is
used when a larger piece of tissue is needed.

    * You receive medicine (anesthesia) that allows you to sleep and be pain-free.
    * The surgeon makes a small surgical cut (incision).
    * The surgeon locates the part of the kidney from which the biopsy tissue needs to be taken. The tissue is removed.
    * The incision is closed with stitches (sutures).

After percutaneous or open biopsy, you will likely stay in the hospital for at
least 12 hours. You will receive pain medicines and fluids by mouth or through
a vein (IV). Your urine will be checked for heavy bleeding. A small amount of
bleeding is normal after a biopsy.

Follow instructions about caring for yourself after the biopsy. This may
include not lifting anything heavier than 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) for 2
weeks after the biopsy.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your health care provider:

    * About medicines you are taking, including vitamins and supplements, herbal remedies, and over-the-counter medicines
    * If you have any allergies
    * If you have bleeding problems or if you take blood-thinning medicines such as warfarin (Coumadin), clopidogrel (Plavix), dipyridamole (Persantine), fondaparinux (Arixtra), apixaban (Eliquis), dabigatran (Pradaxa), or aspirin
    * If you are or think you might be pregnant

## How the Test will Feel

Numbing medicine is used, so the pain during the procedure is often slight.
The numbing medicine may burn or sting when first injected.

After the procedure, the area may feel tender or sore for a few days.

You may see bright, red blood in the urine during the first 24 hours after the
test. If the bleeding lasts longer, tell your provider.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your doctor may order a kidney biopsy if you have:

    * An unexplained drop in kidney function
    * Blood in the urine that does not go away
    * Protein in the urine found during a urine test
    * A transplanted kidney, which needs to be monitored using a biopsy 

## Normal Results

A normal result is when the kidney tissue shows normal structure.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means there are changes in the kidney tissue. This may be
due to:

    * Infection
    * Poor blood flow through the kidney
    * Connective tissue diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Other diseases that may be affecting the kidney, such as diabetes
    * Kidney transplant rejection, if you had a transplant

## Risks

Risks include:

    * Bleeding from the kidney (in rare cases, may require a blood transfusion)
    * Bleeding into the muscle, which might cause soreness
    * Infection (small risk) 

## Alternative Names

Renal biopsy; Biopsy - kidney

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Renal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8902t.jpg)Renal biopsy

## References

Salama AD, Cook HT. The renal biopsy. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA,
Marsden PA, Karl S, Philip AM, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 26.

Topham PS, Chen Y. Renal biopsy. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson
RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

