Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003850.htm    
                                Description: An oropharynx lesion biopsy is surgery in which tissue from an abnormal growth or mouth sore is removed and checked for problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Oropharynx lesion biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003850.htm

# Oropharynx lesion biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An oropharynx lesion biopsy is surgery in which tissue from an abnormal growth
or mouth sore is removed and checked for problems.

![Oropharyngeal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9711.jpg)

## How the Test is Performed

Painkiller or numbing medicine is first applied to the area. For large sores
or sores of the throat, general anesthesia may be needed. This means you will
be asleep during the procedure.

All or part of the problem area (lesion) is removed. It is sent to the
laboratory to check for problems. If a growth in the mouth or throat needs to
be removed, the biopsy will be done first. This is followed by the actual
removal of the growth.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If a simple painkiller or local numbing medicine is to be used, there is no
special preparation. If the test is part of a growth removal or if general
anesthesia is used, you will likely be asked not to eat for 6 to 8 hours
before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel pressure or tugging while the tissue is being removed. After the
numbness wears off, the area may be sore for a few days.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to determine the cause of a sore (lesion) in the throat.

## Normal Results

This test is only done when there is an abnormal tissue area.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean:

    * Cancer (such as squamous cell carcinoma)
    * Benign lesions (such as papilloma)  

    * Fungal infections (such as candida)
    * Histoplasmosis
    * Oral lichen planus
    * Precancerous sore (leukoplakia)
    * Viral infections (such as Herpes simplex) 

## Risks

Risks of the procedure may include:

    * Infection of the site
    * Bleeding at the site 

If there is bleeding, the blood vessels may be sealed (cauterized) with an
electric current or laser.

## Considerations

Avoid hot or spicy food after the biopsy.

## Alternative Names

Throat lesion biopsy; Biopsy - mouth or throat; Mouth lesion biopsy; Oral
cancer - biopsy

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Oropharyngeal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9711t.jpg)Oropharyngeal biopsy

## References

Lee FE-H, Treanor JJ. Viral infections. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 32.

Sinha P, Harreus U. Malignant neoplasms of the oropharynx. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 97.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![Oral Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OralCancer_thumb.jpg)Oral Cancer
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

