Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003906.htm    
                                Description: Ureteral retrograde brush biopsy is a surgical procedure. During the surgery, your surgeon takes a small sample of tissue from the lining of the kidney or ureter. The ureter is the tube that connects a    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ureteral retrograde brush biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003906.htm

# Ureteral retrograde brush biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ureteral retrograde brush biopsy is a surgical procedure. During the surgery,
your surgeon takes a small sample of tissue from the lining of the kidney or
ureter. The ureter is the tube that connects a kidney to the bladder. The
tissue is sent to a lab for testing.

## How the Test is Performed

This procedure is done using:

    * Regional (spinal) anesthesia
    * General anesthesia

You will not feel any pain. The test takes about 30 to 60 minutes.

A cystoscope is first placed through the urethra into the bladder. Cystoscope
is a tube with a camera on the end.

    * Then a guide wire is inserted through the cystoscope into the ureter (the tube between the bladder and kidney).
    * The cystoscope is removed. But the guide wire is left in place.
    * A ureteroscope is inserted over or next to the guide wire. The ureteroscope is a longer, thinner telescope with a small camera. The surgeon can see the inside of the ureter or kidney through the camera.
    * A nylon or steel brush is placed through the ureteroscope. The area to be biopsied is rubbed with the brush. Biopsy forceps may be used instead to collect a tissue sample.
    * The brush or biopsy forceps is removed. The tissue is taken from the instrument.

The sample is then sent to a pathology lab for analysis. The instrument and
guide wire are removed from the body. A small tube or stent may be left in the
ureter. This prevents a kidney blockage caused by swelling from the procedure.
It is removed later.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may not be able to eat or drink anything for about 6 hours before the
test. Your health care provider will tell you how you need to prepare.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have some mild cramping or discomfort after the test is over. You may
have a burning feeling the first few times you empty your bladder. You may
also urinate more often or have some blood in your urine for a few days after
the procedure. You may have discomfort from the stent that will continue to be
in place until it is removed at a later time.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to take a sample of tissue from the kidney or ureter. It is
performed when an x-ray or other test has shown a suspicious area (lesion).
This can also be done if there is blood or abnormal cells in the urine.

## Normal Results

The tissue appears normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may show cancer cells (carcinoma). This test is often used to
tell the difference between cancerous (malignant) and noncancerous (benign)
lesions.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection

Another possible risk for this procedure is a hole (perforation) in the
ureter. This can cause scarring of the ureter and you may need another surgery
to correct the problem. Tell your provider if you have an allergy to seafood.
This could cause you to have an allergic reaction to the contrast dye used
during this test.

## Considerations

This test should not be performed in people with a:

    * Urinary tract infection
    * Blockage at or below the biopsy site 

You may have abdominal pain or pain on your side (flank).

A small amount of blood in the urine is normal the first few times you urinate
after the procedure. Your urine may look faintly pink. Report very bloody
urine or bleeding that lasts longer than 3 emptyings of the bladder to your
provider.

Call your provider if you have:

    * Pain that is bad or is not getting better
    * Fever
    * Chills
    * Very bloody urine
    * Bleeding that continues after you have emptied your bladder 3 times 

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - brush - urinary tract; Retrograde ureteral brush biopsy cytology;
Cytology - ureteral retrograde brush biopsy

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Ureteral biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9644t.jpg)Ureteral biopsy

## References

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Cystoscopy and ureteroscopy. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-
topics/diagnostic-tests/cystoscopy-ureteroscopy/Pages/default.aspx. Updated
June 2015. Accessed July 17, 2018.

Smith AK, Matin SF, Jarrett TW. Urothelial tumors of the upper urinary tract
and ureter. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Ureteral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UreteralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ureteral
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

