Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003847.htm    
                                Description: Salivary gland biopsy is the removal of cells or a piece of tissue from a salivary gland for exam.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Salivary gland biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003847.htm

# Salivary gland biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Salivary gland biopsy is the removal of cells or a piece of tissue from a
salivary gland for exam.

## How the Test is Performed

You have several pairs of salivary glands that drain into your mouth:

    * A major pair in front of the ears (parotid glands)
    * Another major pair beneath your jaw (submandibular glands)
    * Two major pairs on the floor of the mouth (sublingual glands)
    * Hundreds to thousands of minor salivary glands in the lips, cheeks, and tongue

One type of salivary gland biopsy is a needle biopsy.

    * The skin or mucous membrane over the gland is cleaned with rubbing alcohol.
    * A local pain-killing medicine (anesthetic) may be injected, and a needle is inserted into the gland.
    * A piece of tissue or cells are removed and placed on slides.
    * The samples are sent to the lab to be examined. 

A biopsy can also be done to:

    * Determine the type of tumor in a salivary gland lump.
    * Determine if the gland and tumor need to be removed.

An open surgical biopsy of the glands in the lips or the parotid gland can
also be performed to diagnose diseases such as Sjogren syndrome.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation for a needle biopsy. However, you may be asked
not to drink or eat anything for a few hours before the test.

For surgical removal of a tumor, preparation is the same as for any major
surgery. You will not be able to eat anything for 6 to 8 hours before the
surgery.

## How the Test will Feel

With a needle biopsy, you may feel some stinging or burning if a local numbing
medicine is injected.

You may feel pressure or mild discomfort when the needle is inserted. This
should only last for 1 or 2 minutes.

The area may feel tender or be bruised for a few days after the biopsy.

The biopsy for Sjogren syndrome requires an injection of the anesthetic in the
lip or in the front of the ear. You will have stitches where the tissue sample
was removed.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to find the cause of abnormal lumps or growths of the
salivary glands. It is also done to diagnose Sjogren syndrome.

## Normal Results

The salivary gland tissue is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * Salivary gland tumors or infection
    * Sjogren syndrome or other forms of gland inflammation

## Risks

Risks from this procedure include:

    * Allergic reaction to the anesthetic
    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Injury to the facial or trigeminal nerve (rare)
    * Numbness of the lip 

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - salivary gland

## Images

    * ![Salivary gland biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9862t.jpg)Salivary gland biopsy

## References

Miloro M, Kolokythas A. Diagnosis and management of salivary gland disorders.
In: Hupp JR, Ellis E, Tucker MR, eds. _Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial
Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

Miller-Thomas M. Diagnostic imaging and fine-needle aspiration of the salivary
glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 84.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Salivary Gland
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandCancer_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Cancer _Read more_

![Salivary Gland
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandDisorder_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

