Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003848.htm    
                                Description: A nasal mucosal biopsy is the removal of a small piece of tissue from the lining of the nose so that it can be checked for disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasal mucosal biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003848.htm

# Nasal mucosal biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nasal mucosal biopsy is the removal of a small piece of tissue from the
lining of the nose so that it can be checked for disease.

## How the Test is Performed

A painkiller is sprayed into the nose. In some cases, a numbing shot may be
used. A small piece of the tissue that appears abnormal is removed and checked
for problems in the laboratory.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed. You may be asked to fast for a few hours
before the biopsy.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel pressure or tugging when the tissue is removed. After the
numbness wears off, the area may be sore for a few days.

A small to moderate amount of bleeding after the procedure is common. If there
is bleeding, the blood vessels may be sealed with an electric current, laser,
or chemical.

## Why the Test is Performed

Nasal mucosal biopsy is most often done when abnormal tissue is seen during
examination of the nose. It may also be done when the health care provider
suspects you have a problem affecting the mucosal tissue of the nose.

## Normal Results

The tissue in the nose is normal.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * Cancer
    * Infections, such as tuberculosis
    * Necrotizing granuloma, a type of tumor
    * Nasal polyps
    * Nasal tumors
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Granulomatosis with polyangiitis
    * Primary ciliary dyskinesia

## Risks

Risks involved with this procedure include:

    * Bleeding from the biopsy site
    * Infection

## Considerations

Avoid blowing your nose after the biopsy. Do not pick your nose or put your
fingers over the area. Gently squeeze the nostrils shut if there is bleeding,
holding the pressure for 10 minutes. If the bleeding doesn't stop after 30
minutes, you may need to see your doctor. The blood vessels may be sealed with
an electric current or packing.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - nasal mucosa; Nose biopsy

## Images

    * ![Sinuses](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1108t.jpg)Sinuses
    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Nasal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9686t.jpg)Nasal biopsy

## References

Bauman JE. Head and neck cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 181.

Jackson RS, McCaffrey TV. Nasal manifestations of systemic disease. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 12.

Judson MA, Morgenthau AS, Baughman RP. Sarcoidosis. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

