Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003416.htm    
                                Description: A biopsy is the removal of a small piece of tissue for laboratory examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003416.htm

# Biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A biopsy is the removal of a small piece of tissue for laboratory examination.

## How the Test is Performed

There are several different types of biopsies.

A needle biopsy is done using local anesthesia. There are two types.

    * Fine needle aspiration uses a small needle attached to a syringe. Very small amounts of tissue cells are removed.
    * Core biopsy removes slivers of tissue using a hollow needle attached to a spring-loaded device.

With either type of needle biopsy, the needle is passed several times through
the tissue being examined. The doctor uses the needle to remove the tissue
sample. Needle biopsies are often done using CT scan, MRI, mammogram, or
ultrasound. These imaging tools help guide the doctor to the right area.

An open biopsy is surgery that uses local or general anesthesia. This means
you are relaxed (sedated) or asleep and pain free during the procedure. It is
done in a hospital operating room. The surgeon makes a cut into the affected
area, and the tissue is removed.

A laparoscopic biopsy uses much smaller surgical cuts than open biopsy. A
camera-like instrument (laparoscope) and tools can be inserted. The
laparoscope helps guide the surgeon to the right place to take the sample.

A skin lesion biopsy is done when a small amount of skin is removed so it can
be examined. The skin is tested to look for skin conditions or diseases.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Before scheduling the biopsy, tell your health care provider about any
medicines you are taking, including herbs and supplements. You may be asked to
stop taking some for a while. These include blood thinners such as:

    * NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen)
    * Clopidegrel (Plavix)
    * Warfarin (Coumadin)
    * Dabigatran (Pradaxa)
    * Rivaroxaban (Xarelto)
    * Apixaban (Eliquis)

DO NOT stop or change your medicines without first talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

With a needle biopsy, you may feel a small sharp pinch at the site of the
biopsy. Local anesthesia is injected to lessen the pain.

In an open or laparoscopic biopsy, general anesthesia is often used so that
you will be pain free.

## Why the Test is Performed

A biopsy is most often done to examine tissue for disease.

## Normal Results

The tissue removed is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal biopsy means that the tissue or cells have an unusual structure,
shape, size, or condition.

This may mean you have a disease, such as cancer, but it depends on your
biopsy.

## Risks

Risks of a biopsy include:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

## Considerations

There are many different types of biopsies and not all are done with a needle
or surgery. Ask your provider for more information about the specific type of
biopsy you are having.

## Alternative Names

Tissue sampling

## References

American College of Radiology (ACR), the Society of Interventional Radiology
(SIR), and the Society for Pediatric Radiology. ACR-SIR-SPR practice parameter
for the performance of image-guided percutaneous needle biopsy (PNB). Amended
2014 (Resolution 39). www.acr.org. Accessed October 8, 2018.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specific - specimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:199-202.

Kessel D, Robertson I. Achieving tissue diagnosis. In: Kessel D, Robertson I,
eds. _Interventional Radiology: A Survival Guide_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 38.

Olbricht S. Biopsy techniques and basic excisions. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer
JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 146.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

