Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003852.htm    
                                Description: A gum biopsy is a surgery in which a small piece of gingival (gum) tissue is removed and examined.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gum biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003852.htm

# Gum biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A gum biopsy is a surgery in which a small piece of gingival (gum) tissue is
removed and examined.

## How the Test is Performed

A painkiller is sprayed into the mouth in the area of the abnormal gum tissue.
You may also have an injection of numbing medicine. A small piece of gum
tissue is removed and checked for problems in the lab. Sometimes stitches are
used to close the opening created for the biopsy.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be told not to eat for a few hours before the biopsy.

## How the Test will Feel

The painkiller put in your mouth should numb the area during the procedure.
You may feel some tugging or pressure. If there is bleeding, the blood vessels
may be sealed off with an electric current or laser. This is called
electrocauterization. After the numbness wears off, the area may be sore for a
few days.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to look for the cause of abnormal gum tissue.

## Normal Results

This test is only done when gum tissue looks abnormal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * Amyloid
    * Noncancerous mouth sores (the specific cause can be determined in many cases)
    * Oral cancer (for example, squamous cell carcinoma)

## Risks

Risks for this procedure include:

    * Bleeding from the biopsy site
    * Infection of the gums
    * Soreness 

## Considerations

Avoid brushing the area where the biopsy was performed for 1 week.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - gingiva (gums)

## Images

    * ![Gum biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9357t.jpg)Gum biopsy
    * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy

## References

Ellis E, Huber MA. Principles of differential diagnosis and biopsy. In: Hupp
JR, Ellis E, Tucker MR, eds. _Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 22.

Wein RO, Weber RS. Malignant neoplasms of the oral cavity. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 93.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Gum Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GumDisease_thumb.jpg)Gum Disease
_Read more_

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

