Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003849.htm    
                                Description: A tongue biopsy is a minor surgery that is done to remove a small piece of the tongue. The tissue is then examined under a microscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tongue biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003849.htm

# Tongue biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tongue biopsy is a minor surgery that is done to remove a small piece of the
tongue. The tissue is then examined under a microscope.

## How the Test is Performed

A tongue biopsy can be done using a needle.

    * You will get numbing medicine at the place where the biopsy is to be done.
    * The health care provider will gently stick the needle into the tongue and remove a tiny piece of tissue. 

Some types of tongue biopsies remove a thin slice of tissue. Medicine to numb
the area (local anesthetic) will be used. Others are done under general
anesthesia, (allowing you to be asleep and pain-free) so that a larger area
may be removed and examined.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be told not to eat or drink anything for several hours before the
test.

## How the Test will Feel

Your tongue is very sensitive so a needle biopsy may be uncomfortable even
when numbing medicine is used.

Your tongue can be tender or sore, and it may feel slightly swollen after the
biopsy. You may have stitches or an open sore where the biopsy was done.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to find the cause of abnormal growths or suspicious-looking
areas of the tongue.

## Normal Results

The tongue tissue is normal when examined.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean:

    * Amyloidosis
    * Tongue (oral) cancer
    * Viral ulcer
    * Benign tumors

## Risks

Risks for this procedure include:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Swelling of the tongue (can obstruct the airway and cause breathing difficulty) 

Complications from this procedure are rare.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - tongue

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Tongue biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9978t.jpg)Tongue biopsy

## References

Ellis E, Huber MA. Principles of differential diagnosis and biopsy. In: Hupp
JR, Ellis E, Tucker MR, eds. _Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 22.

McNamara MJ. Other solid tumors. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs RC, Wing EJ, Fitz JG,
eds. _Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of Medicine_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

Wenig BM. Neoplasms of the pharynx. In: Wenig BM, ed. _Atlas of Head and Neck
Pathology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016 chap 10.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Oral Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OralCancer_thumb.jpg)Oral Cancer
_Read more_

![Tongue
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TongueDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tongue
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

