Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003933.htm    
                                Description: A lymph node biopsy is the removal of lymph node tissue for examination under a microscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lymph node biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003933.htm

# Lymph node biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lymph node biopsy is the removal of lymph node tissue for examination under
a microscope.

The lymph nodes are small glands that make white blood cells (lymphocytes),
which fight infection. Lymph nodes may trap the germs that are causing an
infection. Cancer can spread to lymph nodes.

## How the Test is Performed

A lymph node biopsy is done in an operating room in a hospital or at an
outpatient surgical center. The biopsy may be done in different ways.

An open biopsy is surgery to remove all or part of the lymph node. This is
usually done if there is a lymph node that can be felt on exam. This can be
done with local anesthesia (numbing medicine) injected into the area, or under
general anesthesia. The procedure is typically done in the following way:

    * You lie on the examination table. You may be given medicine to calm you and make you sleepy or you may have general anesthesia, which means you are asleep and pain-free.
    * The biopsy site is cleansed.
    * A small surgical cut (incision) is made. The lymph node or part of the node is removed.
    * The incision is closed with stitches and a bandage or liquid adhesive is applied.
    * An open biopsy may take 30 to 45 minutes.

For some cancers, a special way of finding the best lymph node to biopsy is
used. This is called sentinel lymph node biopsy, and it involves:

A tiny amount of a tracer, either a radioactive tracer (radioisotope) or a
blue dye or both, is injected at the tumor site.

The tracer or dye flows into the nearest (local) node or nodes. These nodes
are called the sentinel nodes. The sentinel nodes are the first lymph nodes to
which a cancer may spread.

The sentinel node or nodes are removed.

Lymph node biopsies in the belly may be removed with a laparoscope. This is a
small tube with a light and camera that is inserted through a small incision
in the abdomen. One or more other incisions will be made and tools will be
inserted to help remove the node. The lymph node is located and a piece of it
is removed. This is usually performed under general anesthesia, which means
the person having this procedure will be asleep and pain-free.

After the sample is removed, it is sent to the laboratory for examination.

A needle biopsy involves inserting a needle into a lymph node. This type of
biopsy is done less often because the results are not as helpful as with an
open biopsy.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider:

    * If you are pregnant
    * If you have any drug allergies
    * If you have bleeding problems
    * What medicines you are taking (including any supplements or herbal remedies)

Your provider may ask you to:

    * Stop taking any blood thinners, such as aspirin, heparin, warfarin (Coumadin), or clopidogrel (Plavix) as directed
    * Not eat or drink anything after a certain period of time before the biopsy
    * Arrive at a certain time for the procedure

## How the Test will Feel

When the local anesthetic is injected, you will feel a prick and a mild
stinging. The biopsy site will be sore for a few days after the test.

After an open or laparoscopic biopsy, the pain is mild and you can easily
control it with an over-the-counter pain medicine. You may also notice some
bruising or fluid leaking for a few days. Follow instructions for taking care
of the incision. While the incision is healing, avoid any type of intense
exercise or heavy lifting that causes pain or discomfort. Ask your provider
for specific instructions about what activities you can do.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is used to diagnose cancer, sarcoidosis, or an infection (such as
tuberculosis):

    * When you or yourÂ provider feel swollen glands and they do not go away 
    * When abnormal lymph nodes are present on a CT or MRI scan
    * For some people with breast cancer or melanoma, to see if the cancer has spread (sentinel lymph node biopsy) 

The results of the biopsy help yourÂ provider decide on further tests and
treatments.

## Normal Results

If a lymph node biopsy does not show any signs of cancer, it is more likely
that other lymph nodes nearby are also cancer-free. This information can help
the provider decide about further tests and treatments.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to many different conditions, from very mild
infections to cancer.

For example, enlarged lymph nodes may be due to:

    * Cancers (breast, lung, oral) 
    * HIV 
    * Cancer of the lymph tissue (HodgkinÂ or non-Hodgkin lymphoma)
    * Infection (tuberculosis, cat scratch disease)
    * Inflammation of lymph nodes and other organs and tissues (sarcoidosis)

## Risks

Lymph node biopsy may result in any of the following:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection (in rare cases, the wound may get infected and you may need to take antibiotics)
    * Nerve injury if the biopsy is done on a lymph node close to nerves (the numbness usually goes away in a few months)

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - lymph nodes; Open lymph node biopsy; Fine needle aspiration biopsy;
Sentinel lymph node biopsy

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Lymph node metastases, CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1184t.jpg)Lymph node metastases, CT scan

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specific - specimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:199-202.

Chung A, Giuliano AE. Lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymphadenectomy for
breast cancer. In: Bland KI, Copeland EM, Klimberg S, eds. _The Breast:
Comprehensive Management of Benign and Malignant Diseases_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 42.

Young NA, Dulaimi E, Al-Saleem T. Lymph nodes. In: Bibbo M, Wilbur DC, eds.
_Comprehensive Cytopathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 25.

## Review Date 6/11/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

