Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003891.htm    
                                Description: A rectal biopsy is a procedure to remove a small piece of tissue from the rectum for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rectal biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003891.htm

# Rectal biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A rectal biopsy is a procedure to remove a small piece of tissue from the
rectum for examination.

## How the Test is Performed

A rectal biopsy is usually part of anoscopy or sigmoidoscopy.Â These are
procedures to view inside the rectum.

A digital rectal exam is done first. Then, a lubricated instrument (anoscope
or proctoscope) is placed into the rectum. You will feel some discomfort when
this is done.

A biopsy can be taken through any of these instruments.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may get a laxative, enema, or other preparation before the biopsy so that
you can completely empty your bowel. This will allow the doctor a clear view
of the rectum.

## How the Test will Feel

There will be some discomfort during the procedure. You may feel like you need
to have a bowel movement. You may feel cramping or mild discomfort as the
instrument is placed into the rectal area. You may feel a pinch when a biopsy
is taken.

## Why the Test is Performed

A rectal biopsy is used to determine the cause of abnormal growths found
during anoscopy, sigmoidoscopy, or other tests. It can also be used to confirm
the diagnosis of amyloidosis (rare disorder in which abnormal proteins build
up in tissues and organs).

## Normal Results

The anus and rectum appear normal in size, color, and shape. There should be
no evidence of:

    * Bleeding
    * Polyps (growth on the lining of the anus)
    * Hemorrhoids (swollen veins in the anus or lower part of the rectum)
    * Other abnormalities 

No problems are seen when the biopsy tissue is examined under a microscope.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

This test is a common way to determine the specific causes of abnormal
conditions of the rectum, such as:

    * Abscesses (collection of pus in the area of the anus and rectum)
    * Colorectal polyps
    * Infection
    * Inflammation
    * Tumors
    * Amyloidosis
    * Crohn disease (inflammation of the digestive tract)
    * Hirschsprung disease in infants (blockage of the large intestine)
    * Ulcerative colitis (inflammation of the lining of the large intestine and rectum) 

## Risks

Risks of a rectal biopsy include bleeding and tearing.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - rectum; Rectal bleeding - biopsy; Rectal polyps - biopsy; Amyloidosis
- rectal biopsy; Crohn disease - rectal biopsy; Colorectal cancer - biopsy;
Hirschsprung disease - rectal biopsy

## Images

    * ![Rectal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9545t.jpg)Rectal biopsy

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Proctoscopy - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:907-908.

Gibson JA, Odze RD. Tissue sampling, specimen handling, and laboratory
processing. In: Chandrasekhara V, Elmunzer J, Khashab MA, Muthusamy VR, eds.
_Clinical Gastrointestinal Endoscopy_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 5.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Rectal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RectalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Rectal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

