Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003841.htm    
                                Description: An abdominal wall fat pad biopsy is the removal of a small part of the abdominal wall fat pad for laboratory study of the tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal wall fat pad biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003841.htm

# Abdominal wall fat pad biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An abdominal wall fat pad biopsy is the removal of a small part of the
abdominal wall fat pad for laboratory study of the tissue.

## How the Test is Performed

Needle aspiration is the most common method of taking an abdominal wall fat
pad biopsy.

The health care provider cleans the skin on your belly area. Numbing medicine
may be applied on the area. A needle is placed through the skin and into the
fat pad under the skin. A small piece of the fat pad is removed with the
needle. It is sent to a laboratory for analysis.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is usually necessary. However, follow any specific
instructions your provider gives you.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have some mild discomfort or feel pressure when the needle is
inserted. Afterward, the area may feel tender or be bruised for several days.

## Why the Test is Performed

The procedure is done most often to test for amyloidosis. Amyloidosis is a
disorder in which abnormal proteins build up in tissues and organs, impairing
their function. Clumps of the abnormal proteins are called amyloid deposits.

Diagnosing the disease in this way may avoid the need for a biopsy of a nerve
or an internal organ, which is a more difficult procedure.

## Normal Results

The fat pad tissues are normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In the case of amyloidosis, abnormal results mean there are amyloid deposits.

## Risks

There is a slight risk of infection, bruising, or slight bleeding.

## Alternative Names

Amyloidosis - abdominal wall fat pad biopsy; Abdominal wall biopsy; Biopsy -
abdominal wall fat pad

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Fat tissue biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8605t.jpg)Fat tissue biopsy

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specific - specimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:199-202.

Gertz MA. Amyloidosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 188.

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amyloidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amyloidosis_thumb.jpg)Amyloidosis
_Read more_

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

