Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003895.htm    
                                Description: A liver biopsy is a test that takes a sample of tissue from the liver for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Liver biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003895.htm

# Liver biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A liver biopsy is a test that takes a sample of tissue from the liver for
examination.

## How the Test is Performed

Most of the time, the test is done in the hospital. Before the test is done,
you may be given a medicine to prevent pain or to calm you (sedative).

The biopsy may be done through the abdominal wall:

    * You will lie on your back with your right hand under your head. You need to stay as still as you can.
    * The health care provider will find the correct spot for the biopsy needle to be inserted into the liver. This is often done by using ultrasound.
    * The skin is cleaned, and numbing medicine is injected into the area using a small needle.
    * A small cut is made, and the biopsy needle is inserted.
    * You will be told to hold your breath while the biopsy is taken. This is to reduce the chance of damage to the lung or liver.
    * The needle is removed quickly.
    * Pressure will be applied to stop the bleeding. A bandage is placed over the insertion site.

The procedure can also be done by inserting a needle into the jugular vein.

    * If the procedure is performed this way, you will lie on your back.
    * X-rays will be used to guide the provider to the vein.
    * A special needle and catheter (thin tube) is used to take the biopsy sample.

If you receive sedation for this test, you will need someone to drive you
home.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider about:

    * Bleeding problems
    * Drug allergies
    * Medicines you are taking including herbs, supplements, or medicines you bought without a prescription
    * Whether you are pregnant 

You must sign a consent form. Blood tests are sometimes done to test your
blood's ability to clot. You will be told not to eat or drink anything for the
8 hours before the test.

For infants and children:

The preparation needed for a child depends on the child's age and maturity.
Your child's provider will tell you what you can do to prepare your child for
this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a stinging pain when the anesthetic is injected. The biopsy
needle may feel like deep pressure and dull pain. Some people feel this pain
in the shoulder.

## Why the Test is Performed

The biopsy helps diagnose many liver diseases. The procedure also helps assess
the stage (early, advanced) of liver disease. This is especially important in
hepatitis B and C infection.

The biopsy also helps detect:

    * Cancer
    * Infections
    * The cause of abnormal levels of liver enzymes that have been found in blood tests
    * The cause of an unexplained liver enlargement 

## Normal Results

The liver tissue is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The biopsy may reveal a number of liver diseases, including cirrhosis,
hepatitis, or infections such as tuberculosis. It may also indicate cancer.

This test also may be performed for:

    * Alcoholic liver disease (fatty liver, hepatitis, or cirrhosis)
    * Amebic liver abscess
    * Autoimmune hepatitis
    * Biliary atresia
    * Chronic active hepatitis
    * Chronic persistent hepatitis
    * Disseminated coccidioidomycosis
    * Hemochromatosis
    * Hepatitis B
    * Hepatitis C
    * Hepatitis D
    * Hepatocellular carcinoma
    * Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Primary biliary cirrhosis, now called primary biliary cholangitis
    * Pyogenic liver abscess
    * Reye syndrome
    * Sclerosing cholangitis
    * Wilson disease

## Risks

Risks may include:

    * Collapsed lung
    * Complications from the sedation
    * Injury to the gallbladder or kidney
    * Internal bleeding 

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - liver; Percutaneous biopsy; Needle biopsy of liver

## Images

    * ![Liver biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1102t.jpg)Liver biopsy

## References

Bedossa P, Paradis V, Zucman-Rossi J. Cellular and molecular techniques. In:
Burt AD, Ferrell LD, Hubscher SG, eds. _MacSween's Pathology of the Liver_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Liver biopsy (percutaneous liver biopsy) -
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:727-729.

Squires JE, Balistreri WF. Manifestations of liver disease. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 355.

Wedemeyer H. Hepatitis C. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 80.

## Review Date 1/1/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

