Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001515.htm    
                                Description: Nipple discharge is any fluid that comes out of the nipple area in your breast.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nipple discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001515.htm

# Nipple discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nipple discharge is any fluid that comes out of the nipple area in your
breast.

## Causes

Sometimes discharge from your nipples is OK and will get better on its own.
You are more likely to have nipple discharge if you have been pregnant at
least once.

Nipple discharge is most often not cancer (benign), but rarely, it can be a
sign of breast cancer. It is important to find out what is causing it and to
get treatment. Here are some reasons for nipple discharge:

    * Pregnancy
    * Recent breastfeeding
    * Rubbing on the area from a bra or t-shirt
    * Injury to the breast
    * Breast infection
    * Inflammation and clogging of the breast ducts
    * Noncancerous pituitary tumors
    * Small growth in the breast that is usually not cancer
    * Severe underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism)
    * Fibrocystic breast (normal lumpiness in the breast)
    * Use of certain medicines such as birth control pills or antidepressants
    * Use of certain herbs, such as anise and fennel
    * Widening of the milk ducts 
    * Intraductal papilloma (benign tumor in the milk duct)
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Illicit drug use, including cocaine, opioids and marijuana

Sometimes, babies can have nipple discharge. This is caused by hormones from
the mother before birth. It should go away in 2 weeks.

Cancers such as Paget disease (a rare type of cancer involving the skin of the
nipple) can also cause nipple discharge.

## Symptoms

Nipple discharge that is NOT normal is:

    * Bloody
    * Comes from only one nipple
    * Comes out on its own without you squeezing or touching your nipple 

Nipple discharge is more likely to be normal if it:

    * Comes out of both nipples
    * Happens when you squeeze your nipples 

The color of the discharge does not tell you whether it is normal. The
discharge can look milky, clear, yellow, green, or brown.

Squeezing your nipple to check for discharge can make it worse. Leaving the
nipple alone may make the discharge stop.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and ask questions about your
symptoms and medical history.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Prolactin blood test
    * Thyroid blood tests
    * Head CT scan or MRI to look for pituitary tumor
    * Mammography
    * Ultrasound of the breast
    * Breast biopsy
    * Ductography or ductogram: an x-ray with contrast dye injected into the affected milk duct
    * Skin biopsy, if Paget disease is a concern 

## Treatment

Once the cause of your nipple discharge is found, your provider can recommend
ways to treat it. You may:

    * Need to change any medicine that caused the discharge
    * Have lumps removed
    * Have all or some of the breast ducts removed
    * Receive creams to treat skin changes around your nipple
    * Receive medicines to treat aÂ health condition 

If all of your tests are normal, you may not need treatment. You should have
another mammogram and physical exam within 1 year.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, nipple problems are not breast cancer. These problems will
either go away with the right treatment, or they can be watched closely over
time.

## Possible Complications

Nipple discharge may be a symptom of breast cancer or a pituitary tumor.

Skin changes around the nipple may be caused by Paget disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Have your provider evaluate any nipple discharge.

## Alternative Names

Discharge from breasts; Milk secretions; Lactation - abnormal; Witch's milk
(neonatal milk); Galactorrhea; Inverted nipple; Nipple problems; Breast cancer
- discharge

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Intraductal papilloma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17077t.jpg)Intraductal papilloma
    * ![Mammary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17084t.jpg)Mammary gland
    * ![Abnormal discharge from the nipple](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17093t.jpg)Abnormal discharge from the nipple
    * ![Normal female breast anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8627t.jpg)Normal female breast anatomy

## References

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Kaiser U, Ho KKY. Pituitary physiology and diagnostic evaluation. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

Leitch AM, Ashfaq R. Discharges and secretions of the nipple. In: Bland KI,
Copeland EM, Klimberg VS, Gradishar WJ, eds. _The Breast: Comprehensive
Management of Benign and Malignant Disorders_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

Sandadi S, Rock DT, Orr JW, Valela FA. Breast diseases: detection, management,
and surveillance of breast disease. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 15.

## Review Date 10/30/2018

Updated by: Jonas DeMuro, MD, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Stony Brook
School of Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

