Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003153.htm    
                                Description: Premenstrual swelling and tenderness of both breasts occurs during the second half of the menstrual cycle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premenstrual breast changes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003153.htm

# Premenstrual breast changes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Premenstrual swelling and tenderness of both breasts occurs during the second
half of the menstrual cycle.

## Considerations

Symptoms of premenstrual breast tenderness may range from mild to severe.
Symptoms usually:

    * Are most severe just before each menstrual period
    * Improve during or right after the menstrual period

Breast tissue may have a dense, bumpy, "cobblestone" feel to the fingers. This
feel is usually more in the outer areas, particularly near the armpit. There
may also be an off and on or ongoing sense of breast fullness with dull, heavy
pain, and tenderness.

## Causes

Hormone changes during the menstrual cycle likely lead to breast swelling.
More estrogen is made early in the cycle and it peaks just before mid-cycle.
This causes the breast ducts to grow in size. The progesterone level peaks
near the 21st day (in a 28-day cycle). This causes growth of the breast
lobules (milk glands).

Premenstrual breast swelling is often linked with:

    * Premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
    * Fibrocystic breast disease (benign breast changes) 

Premenstrual breast tenderness and swelling probably occur to some degree in
nearly all women. More severe symptoms may occur in many women during their
childbearing years. Symptoms may be less in women taking birth control pills.

Risk factors may include:

    * Family history
    * High-fat diet
    * Too much caffeine 

## Home Care

Self-care tips:

    * Eat a lower fat diet.
    * Avoid caffeine (coffee, tea, and chocolate).
    * Avoid salt 1 to 2 weeks before your period starts.
    * Get vigorous exercise every day.
    * Wear a well-fitting bra day and night to provide good breast support.

You should practice breast awareness. Do check your breasts for changes at
regular intervals.

The effectiveness of vitamin E, vitamin B6, and herbal preparations such as
evening primrose oil are somewhat controversial. This should be discussed with
your health care provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Have new, unusual, or changing lumps in breast tissue
    * Have one-sided (unilateral) lumps in breast tissue
    * Do not know how to properly perform breast self-examination
    * Are a woman, age 40 years or older, and have never had a screening mammogram
    * Have discharge from your nipple, particularly if it is a bloody or brown discharge
    * Have symptoms that interfere with your ability to sleep, and diet changes and exercise have not helped

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take your medical history and do a physical examination.
The provider will check for breast lumps, and will note the qualities of the
lump (firm, soft, smooth, bumpy, and so on).

A mammogram or breast ultrasound may be done. These tests will evaluate any
abnormal finding on a breast exam. If a lump is found that is not clearly
benign, you may need a breast biopsy.

These medicines from your provider may reduce or eliminate symptoms:

    * Injections or shots that contain the hormone progestin (Depoprovera). A single shot works for up to 90 days. These injections are given into the muscles of the upper arm or buttocks. They relieve symptoms by stopping menstrual periods.
    * Birth control pills.
    * Diuretics (water pills) taken before your menstrual period. These pills may reduce breast swelling and tenderness.
    * Danazol may be used in severe cases. Danazol is a manmade androgen (male hormone). If this does not work for you, other medicines may be prescribed.

## Alternative Names

Premenstrual tenderness and swelling of the breasts; Breast tenderness -
premenstrual; Breast swelling - premenstrual

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17019t.jpg)Breast self-exam
    * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17021t.jpg)Breast self-exam
    * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23217t.jpg)Breast self-exam

## References

Expert Panel on Breast Imaging, Jokich PM, Bailey L, et al. ACR
appropriateness criteriaÂ® breast pain. _J Am Coll Radiol_.
2017;14(5S):S25-S33. PMID: 28473081 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28473081.

Mendiratta V, Lentz GM. Primary and secondary dysmenorrhea, premenstrual
syndrome, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder: etiology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

Neithardt AB. Premenstrual syndrome. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1054-1055.

Sandadi S, Rock DT, Orr JW, Valea FA. Breast diseases: detection, management,
and surveillance of breast disease. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 15.

The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Premenstrual syndrome
(PMS). www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Dysmenorrhea-Painful-Periods. Updated May
2015. Accessed May 25, 2018.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![Premenstrual
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PremenstrualSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Premenstrual
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

