Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000912.htm    
                                Description: Fibrocystic breast disease is a common way to describe painful, lumpy breasts.      
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fibrocystic breast disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000912.htm

# Fibrocystic breast disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fibrocystic breast disease is a common way to describe painful, lumpy breasts.

## Causes

The exact cause of the condition is not known. Hormones made in the ovaries
may make a woman's breasts feel swollen, lumpy, or painful before or during
menstruation each month.

Up to one half of women have this condition at some time during their life. It
is most common between the ages of 20 and 45. It is rare in women after
menopause unless they are taking estrogen.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are more often worse right before your menstrual period. They tend to
get better after your period starts.

If you have heavy, irregular periods, your symptoms may be worse. If you take
birth control pills, you may have fewer symptoms. In most cases, symptoms get
better after menopause.

Symptoms may include:

    * Pain or discomfort in both breasts
    * Pain that commonly comes and goes with your period, but may last through the whole month
    * Breasts that feel full, swollen, or heavy
    * Pain or discomfort under the arms
    * Thick or lumpy breasts 

You may have a lump in the same area of the breast that becomes larger before
each period and returns to its original size afterward. This type of lump
moves when it is pushed with your fingers. It does not feel stuck or fixed to
the tissue around it. This type of lump is common with fibrocystic breasts.
Your provider may aspirate the lump with a needle to confirm that fluid can be
withdrawn, and that it is a cyst.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you. This will include a breast exam.
Tell your provider if you have noticed any breast changes.

If you are over 40, ask your provider how often you should have a mammogram to
screen for breast cancer. For women under 35, a breast ultrasound may be used
to look more closely at breast tissue.

You may need further tests if a lump was found during a breast exam or your
mammogram result was abnormal. Another mammogram and breast ultrasound may be
done, or a biopsy may be performed.

## Treatment

Women who have no symptoms or only mild symptoms DO NOT need treatment.

Your provider may recommend the following self-care measures:

    * Take over-the-counter medicine, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen for pain
    * Apply heat or ice on the breast
    * Wear a well-fitting bra or a sports bra 

Some women believe that eating less fat, caffeine, or chocolate helps with
their symptoms. There is no evidence that these measures help.

Vitamin E, thiamine, magnesium, and evening primrose oil are not harmful in
most cases. Studies have not shown these to be helpful. Talk with your
provider before taking any medicine or supplement.

For more severe symptoms, your provider may prescribe hormones, such as birth
control pills or other medicine. Take the medicine exactly as instructed. Be
sure to let your provider know if you have side effects from the medicine.

Surgery is never done to treat this condition. However, a lump that stays the
same throughout your menstrual cycle is considered suspicious. In this case,
your provider may recommend a core needle biopsy. In this test, a small amount
of tissue is removed from the lump and examined under a microscope.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If your breast exams and mammograms are normal, you DO NOT need to worry about
your symptoms. Fibrocystic breast changes DO NOT increase your risk for breast
cancer. Symptoms usually improve after menopause.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You find new or different lumps during your breast self-exam.
    * You have new discharge from the nipple or any discharge that is bloody or clear.
    * You have redness or puckering of the skin, or flattening or indentation of the nipple.

## Alternative Names

Fibrocystic breast disease; Mammary dysplasia; Diffuse cystic mastopathy;
Benign breast disease; Glandular breast changes; Cystic changes; Chronic
cystic mastitis; Breast lump - fibrocystic

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Fibrocystic breast disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17185t.jpg)Fibrocystic breast disease

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists website. Benign breast
problems and conditions. www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Benign-Breast-Problems-
and-Conditions. Updated March 2017. Accessed November 5, 2018.

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Nye L. Benign breast disease. Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1079-1084.

Sandadi S, Rock DT, Orr JW, Valea FA. Breast diseases: detection, management,
and surveillance of breast disease. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 15.

## Review Date 10/30/2018

Updated by: Jonas DeMuro, MD, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Stony Brook
School of Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

