Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001238.htm    
                                Description: Intraductal papilloma is a small, noncancerous (benign) tumor that grows in a milk duct of the breast.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intraductal papilloma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001238.htm

# Intraductal papilloma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intraductal papilloma is a small, noncancerous (benign) tumor that grows in a
milk duct of the breast.

## Causes

Intraductal papilloma occurs most often in women ages 35 to 55. The causes and
risk factors are unknown.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Breast lump
    * Nipple discharge, which may be clear or bloodstained

These findings may be in just one breast or in both breasts.

For the most part, these papillomas do not cause pain.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider might feel a small lump under the nipple, but this
lump cannot always be felt. There may be discharge from the nipple. Sometimes,
an intraductal papilloma is found on a mammogram or ultrasound, and then
diagnosed by a needle biopsy.

If there is a mass or nipple discharge, both mammogram and ultrasound should
be performed.

If a woman has nipple discharge, and no abnormal finding on mammogram or
ultrasound, then breast MRI is sometimes recommended.

A breast biopsyÂ may be done to rule out cancer. If you have nipple discharge,
a surgical biopsy is performed. If you have a lump, sometimes a needle biopsy
can be done to make a diagnosis.

## Treatment

The duct is removed with surgery if mammogram, ultrasound, and MRI don't show
a lump that can be checked with a needle biopsy. The cells are checked for
cancer (biopsy).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For the most part, intraductal papillomas do not appear to increase the risk
for developing breast cancer.

The outcome is excellent for people with one papilloma. The risk for cancer
may be higher for:

    * Women with many papillomas
    * Women who get them at an early age
    * Women with a family history of cancer
    * Women who have abnormal cells in the biopsy

## Possible Complications

Complications of surgery can include bleeding, infection, and anesthesia
risks. If the biopsy shows cancer, you may need further surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice any breast discharge or a breast lump.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent intraductal papilloma. Breast self-exams and
screening mammograms can help detect the disease early.

## Images

    * ![Needle biopsy of the breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17016t.jpg)Needle biopsy of the breast
    * ![Intraductal papilloma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17077t.jpg)Intraductal papilloma
    * ![Abnormal discharge from the nipple](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17093t.jpg)Abnormal discharge from the nipple

## References

Davidson NE. Breast cancer and benign breast disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 198.

Hunt KK, Mittlendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery._ 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

## Review Date 11/26/2017

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

