Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001490.htm    
                                Description: A breast infection is an infection in the tissue of the breast.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001490.htm

# Breast infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breast infection is an infection in the tissue of the breast.

![Normal female breast
anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8627.jpg)

## Causes

Breast infections are usually caused by common bacteria ( _Staphylococcus
aureus_ ) found on normal skin. The bacteria enter through a break or crack in
the skin, usually on the nipple.

The infection takes place in the fatty tissue of the breast and causes
swelling. This swelling pushes on the milk ducts. The result is pain and lumps
in the infected breast.

Breast infections usually occur in women who are breastfeeding. Breast
infections that are not related to breastfeeding might be a rare form of
breast cancer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a breast infection may include:

    * Breast enlargement on one side only
    * Breast lump
    * Breast pain
    * Fever and flu-like symptoms, including nausea and vomiting
    * Itching
    * Nipple discharge (may contain pus)
    * Swelling, tenderness, and warmth in breast tissue
    * Skin redness, most often in wedge shape
    * Tender or enlarged lymph nodes in armpit on the same side 
![Breast infection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17028.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform physical exam to rule out complications
such as a swollen, pus-filled lump (abscess). Sometimes an ultrasound is done
to check for an abscess.

For infections that keep returning, milk from the nipple may be cultured. In
women who are not breastfeeding, tests done may include:

    * Breast biopsy
    * Breast MRI
    * Breast ultrasound
    * Mammogram
![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1075.jpg)

## Treatment

Self-care may include applying moist heat to the infected breast tissue for 15
to 20 minutes four times a day. You may also need to take pain relievers.

Antibiotics are very effective in treating a breast infection. If you take
antibiotics, you must continue to breastfeed or pump to relieve breast
swelling from milk production.

In case if the abscess does not go away, needle aspiration under ultrasound
guidance is done, along with antibiotics. If this method fails to respond,
then incision and drainage is the treatment of choice.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition usually clears quickly with antibiotic therapy.

## Possible Complications

In severe infections, an abscess may develop. Abscesses need to be drained,
either as an office procedure or with surgery. A wound dressing would be
needed to help with healing after the procedure.Women with abscesses may be
told to temporarily stop breastfeeding.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Any portion of your breast tissue becomes reddened, tender, swollen, or hot
    * You are breastfeeding and develop a high fever
    * The lymph nodes in your armpit become tender or swollen 

## Prevention

The following may help reduce the risk of breast infections:

    * Careful nipple care to prevent irritation and cracking
    * Feeding often and pumping milk to prevent the breast from getting swollen (engorged)
    * Proper breastfeeding technique with good latching by the baby
    * Weaning slowly, over several weeks, rather than quickly stopping breastfeeding

## Alternative Names

Mastitis; Infection - breast tissue; Breast abscess - post partum mastitis;
Breastfeeding - mastitis

## Images

    * ![Normal female breast anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8627t.jpg)Normal female breast anatomy
    * ![Breast infection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17028t.jpg)Breast infection
    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast

## References

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Liu J, Jacobs LK. The management of benign breast disease. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017: 657-659.

Niebyl JR, Weber RJ, Briggs GG. Drugs and environmental agents in pregnancy
and lactation: teratology, epidemiology. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

Que Y-A, Moreillon P. Staphylococcus aureus (including staphylococcal toxic
shock syndrome). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 196.

## Review Date 10/30/2018

Updated by: Jonas DeMuro, MD, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Stony Brook
School of Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

