Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003165.htm    
                                Description: When abnormally large breasts develop in males, it is called gynecomastia. It is due to the excess growth of breast tissue, not excess fat tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast enlargement in males

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003165.htm

# Breast enlargement in males

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When abnormally large breasts develop in males, it is called gynecomastia. It
is due to the excess growth of breast tissue, not excess fat tissue.

## Considerations

The condition may occur in one or both breasts. It begins as a small lump
beneath the nipple, which may be tender. One breast may be larger than the
other.

Enlarged breasts in males are usually harmless, but may cause embarrassment
for some men.

Some newborns may have breast development along with a milky discharge
(galactorrhea). This condition usually lasts for a couple of weeks. In rare
cases, it may last until the child is 1 year old.

## Causes

Normal hormone changes are the most common cause of breast development in
newborns, boys, and men. There are other causes as well.

HORMONE CHANGES

Breast enlargement is usually caused by an imbalance of estrogen (female
hormone) and testosterone (male hormone). Males have both types of hormones in
their body. Changes in the levels of these hormones, or in how the body uses
or responds to these hormones, can cause enlarged breasts in males.

In newborns, breast growth is caused by being exposed to estrogen from the
mother. About one half of boy babies are born with enlarged breasts, called
breast buds. They usually go away in 2 to 6 months, but can last longer.

In preteens and teens, breast growth is caused by normal hormone changes that
occur in puberty. More than one half of boys develop some breast enlargement
during puberty. Breast growth often goes away in about 6 months to 2 years.

In men, hormone changes due to aging can cause breast growth. This may occur
more often in overweight or obese men and in men age 50 and older.

HEALTH CONDITIONS

Certain health problems can cause breast growth in adult men, including:

    * Chronic liver disease
    * Kidney failure and dialysis
    * Low testosterone level
    * Obesity 

Rare causes include:

    * Genetic defects
    * Overactive thyroidÂ or underactive thyroid
    * Tumors (including benign tumor of the pituitary gland, called prolactinoma)

MEDICINES AND MEDICAL TREATMENT

Some medicines and treatments that can cause breast growth in men include:

    * Cancer chemotherapy
    * Hormone treatment for prostate cancer, such as flutamide (Proscar), or for enlarged prostate, such as finasteride (Propecia) or bicalutamide
    * Radiation treatment of the testicles
    * HIV/AIDS medicines
    * Corticosteroids and anabolic steroids
    * Estrogen (including those in soy products)
    * Heartburn and ulcer medicines, such as cimetidine (Tagamet) or proton pump inhibitors
    * Anti-anxiety medicines, such as diazepam (Valium)
    * Heart medicines, such as spironolactone (Aldactone), digoxin (Lanoxin), amiodarone, and calcium channel blockers
    * Antifungal medicines, such as ketoconazole (Nizoral)
    * Antibiotics such as metronidazole (Flagyl)
    * Tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline (Elavil)
    * Herbals such as lavender, tea tree oil, and dong quai
    * Opioids 

DRUG AND ALCOHOL USE

Using certain substances can cause breast enlargement:

    * Alcohol
    * Amphetamines
    * Heroin
    * Marijuana
    * Methadone 

Men who have enlarged breasts may have an increased risk for breast cancer.
Breast cancer in men is rare. Signs that may suggest breast cancer include:

    * One-sided breast growth
    * Firm or hard breast lump that feels like it is attached to the tissue
    * Skin sore over the breast
    * Bloody discharge from the nipple 

## Home Care

For swollen breasts that are tender, applying cold compresses may help. Ask
your health care provider if it's OK to take pain relievers.

Other tips include:

    * Stop taking all recreational drugs, such as marijuana
    * Stop taking all nutritional supplements or any medicines you are taking for bodybuilding 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have recent swelling, pain, or enlargement in one or both breasts
    * There is dark or bloody discharge from the nipples
    * There is a skin sore or ulcer over the breast
    * A breast lump feels hard or firm 

If your son has breast growth but has not yet reached puberty, have it checked
by a provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical examination.

You may not need any tests, but the following tests may be done to rule out
certain diseases:

    * Blood hormone level tests
    * Breast ultrasound
    * Liver and kidney function studies
    * Mammogram

TREATMENT

Often no treatment is needed. Breast growth in newborns and young boys often
goes away on its own.

If a medical condition is causing the problem, your provider will treat that
condition.

Your provider will talk with you about medicines or substances that may cause
breast growth. Stopping their use or changing medicines will make the problem
go away. DO NOT stop taking any medicines before talking to your provider.

BreastÂ growth that is extreme, uneven, or does not go away may be
embarrassing. Treatments that may be used in rare situations are:

    * Hormone treatment that blocks the effects of estrogens
    * Breast reduction surgery or liposuction

## Alternative Names

Gynecomastia; BreastÂ enlargement in a male

## Images

    * ![Gynecomastia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9359t.jpg)Gynecomastia

## References

Ali O, Donohoue PA. Gynecomastia. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 585.

Anawalt BD. Gynecomastia. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Sansone A, Romanelli F, Sansone M, Lenzi A, Di Luigi L. Gynecomastia and
hormones. _Endocrine_. 2017;55(1):37-44. PMID: 27145756
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27145756.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

