Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003152.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10;&#10;&#10;&#10;&#10;Breast pain is any discomfort or pain in the breast. &#10;&#10;&#10;&#10;&#10;&#10; &#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003152.htm

# Breast pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breast pain is any discomfort or pain in the breast.

## Considerations

There are many possible causes for breast pain. For example, changes in the
level of hormones during menstruation or pregnancy often causes breast pain.
Some swelling and tenderness just before your period is normal.

Some women who have pain in one or both breasts may fear breast cancer.
However, breast pain is not a common symptom of cancer.

## Causes

Some breast tenderness is normal. The discomfort may be caused by hormone
changes from:

    * Menopause (unless a woman is taking hormone replacement therapy)
    * Menstruation and premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
    * Pregnancy -- breast tenderness tends to be more common during the first trimester
    * Puberty in both girls and boys 

Soon after having a baby, a woman's breasts may become swollen with milk. This
can be very painful. If you also have an area of redness, call your health
care provider, as this may be a sign of an infection or other more serious
breast problem.

Breastfeeding itself may also cause breast pain.

Fibrocystic breast changes are a common cause of breast pain. Fibrocystic
breast tissue contains lumps or cysts that tend to be more tender just before
your menstrual period.

Certain medicines may also cause breast pain, including:

    * Oxymetholone
    * Chlorpromazine
    * Water pills (diuretics)
    * Digitalis preparations
    * Methyldopa
    * Spironolactone 

Shingles can lead to pain in the breast if the painful blistering rash appears
on the skin of your breasts.

## Home Care

If you have painful breasts, the following may help:

    * Take medicine such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen
    * Use heat or ice on the breast
    * Wear a well-fitting bra that supports your breasts,Â such as a sports bra

There is no good evidence to show that reducing the amount of fat, caffeine,
or chocolate in your diet helps reduce breast pain. Vitamin E, thiamine,
magnesium, and evening primrose oil are not harmful, but most studies have not
shown any benefit. Talk to your provider before starting any medicine or
supplement.

Certain birth control pills may help ease breast pain. Ask your provider if
this therapy is right for you.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Bloody or clear discharge from your nipple
    * Given birth within the last week and your breasts are swollen or hard
    * Noticed a new lump that does not go away after your menstrual period
    * Persistent, unexplained breast pain
    * Signs of a breast infection, including redness, pus, or fever

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a breast examination and ask questions about your
breast pain. You may have a mammogram or ultrasound.

Your provider may arrange a follow-up visit if your symptoms have not gone
away in a given period of time. You may be referred to a specialist.

## Alternative Names

Pain - breast; Mastalgia; Mastodynia; Breast tenderness

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Breast pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19583t.jpg)Breast pain

## References

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Liu J, Jacobs LK. The management of benign breast disease. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:657-659.

Sandadi S, Rock DT, Orr JW, Valea FA. Breast diseases: detection, management,
and surveillance of breast disease. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 15.

## Review Date 10/30/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Department of Surgery, Louisiana State
University Health Sciences Center-Shreveport, Shreveport, LA. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

