Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003110.htm    
                                Description: Supernumerary nipplesÂ are the presence of extra nipples.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Supernumerary nipples

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003110.htm

# Supernumerary nipples

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Supernumerary nipplesÂ are the presence of extra nipples.

## Considerations

Extra nipples are fairly common. They are generally unrelated to other
conditions or syndromes. The extra nipples usually occur in a line below the
normal nipples. They are usually not recognized as extra nipples because they
tend to be small and not well-formed.

## Causes

Common causes of supernumerary nipples are:

    * Variation of normal development
    * Some rare genetic syndromes may be associated with supernumerary nipples 

## Home Care

Most people do not need treatment. The extra nipples do NOT develop into
breasts at puberty.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your health care provider if there are extra nipples on an infant.
Tell the provider if there are other symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam. The provider may ask questions about the
person's medical history. The number and location of extra nipples will be
noted.

## Alternative Names

Polymastia; Polythelia; Accessory nipples

## Images

    * ![Supernumerary nipple](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3116t.jpg)Supernumerary nipple
    * ![Supernumerary nipples](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8659t.jpg)Supernumerary nipples

## References

Egro FM, Davidson EH, Namnoum JD, Shestak KC. Congenital breast deformities.
In: Nahabedian MY, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 5: Breast._ 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Felsch KN, Merritt DF. Breast concerns. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 551.

Patterson JW. Miscellaneous conditions. In: Patterson JW, eds. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

