Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001501.htm    
                                Description: Subareolar abscess is an abscess, or growth, on the areolar gland. The areolar gland is located in the breast under or below the areola (colored area around the nipple).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subareolar abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001501.htm

# Subareolar abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Subareolar abscess is an abscess, or growth, on the areolar gland. The areolar
gland is located in the breast under or below the areola (colored area around
the nipple).

## Causes

Subareolar abscess is caused by a blockage of the small glands or ducts below
the skin of the areola. This blockage leads to infection of the glands.

This is an uncommon problem. It affects younger or middle-aged women who are
not breastfeeding. Risk factors include:

    * Diabetes
    * Nipple piercing
    * Smoking

## Symptoms

Symptoms of an areolar abscess are:

    * Swollen, tender lump beneath the areolar area, with swelling of the skin over it
    * Drainage and possible pus from this lump
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a breast exam. Sometimes an ultrasound
or other imaging test of the breast is recommended. A blood count and a
culture of the abscess, if drained, may be ordered.

## Treatment

Subareolar abscesses are treated with antibiotics and by opening and draining
the infected tissue. This can be done in a doctor's office with local numbing
medicine. If the abscess returns, the affected glands should be surgically
removed. The abscess can also be drained using a sterile needle. This is often
done under ultrasound guidance.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is good after the abscess is drained.

## Possible Complications

Subareolar abscess may return until the affected gland is surgically removed.
Any infection in a female who is not nursing has the potential to be a rare
cancer. You may need to have a biopsy or other tests if standard treatment
fails.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop a painful lump under your nipple or
areola. It is very important to have your provider evaluate any breast mass.

## Alternative Names

Abscess - areolar gland; Areolar gland abscess; Breast abscess - subareolar

## Images

    * ![Normal female breast anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8627t.jpg)Normal female breast anatomy

## References

Dabbs DJ, Weidner N. Infections of the breast. In: Dabbs DJ, ed. _Breast
Pathology_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 34.

Valente SA, Grobmyer SR. Mastitis and breast abscess. In: Bland KI, Copeland
EM, Klimberg VS, Gradishar WJ, eds. _The Breast: Comprehensive Management of
Benign and Malignant Disorders_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
6.

## Review Date 10/30/2018

Updated by: Jonas DeMuro, MD, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Stony Brook
School of Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

