Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003904.htm    
                                Description: Cystometric study measures the amount of fluid in the bladder when you first feel the need to urinate, when you are able to sense fullness, and when your bladder is completely full.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cystometric study

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003904.htm

# Cystometric study

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cystometric study measures the amount of fluid in the bladder when you first
feel the need to urinate, when you are able to sense fullness, and when your
bladder is completely full.

## How the Test is Performed

Prior to the cystometric study, you may be asked to urinate (void) into a
special container that is interfaced with a computer. This type of study is
called a uroflow, during which the following will be recorded by the computer:

    * The time it takes you to begin urinating
    * The size, force, and continuity of your urinary stream
    * The amount of urine
    * How long it took you to empty your bladder

You will then lie down, and a thin, flexible tube (catheter) is gently placed
in your bladder. The catheter measures any urine left in the bladder. A
smaller catheter is sometimes placed in your rectum in order to measure
abdominal pressure. Measuring electrodes, similar to the sticky pads used for
an EKG, are placed near the rectum.

A tube used to monitor bladder pressure (cystometer) is attached to the
catheter. Water flows into the bladder at a controlled rate. You will be asked
to tell the health care provider when you first feel the need to urinate and
when you feel that your bladder is completely full.

Often, yourÂ provider may need more information and will order tests to
evaluate of your bladder function.Â This set ofÂ tests is often referred to as
urodynamics or complete urodynamics.Â The combination includes three tests:

    * Measured voiding without a catheter (uroflow)
    * Cystometry (filling phase)
    * Voiding or emptying phase test

For complete urodynamic testing, a much smaller catheter is placed in the
bladder. You will be able to urinate around it.Â Because this special catheter
has a sensor on the tip, the computer can measure the pressure and volumes as
your bladder fills and as you empty it. You may be asked to cough or push so
that the provider can check for urine leakage. This type of complete testing
can reveal a lot of information about your bladder functions.

For even more information, x-rays can be taken during the test. In this case,
instead of water, a special fluid that shows on an x-ray is used to fill your
bladder.Â This type of urodynamics is called videourodynamics.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparations areÂ needed for this test.

For infants and children, preparation depends on the child's age,Â past
experiences, and level of trust. For general information regarding how you can
prepare your child, see the following topics:

    * Preschooler test or procedure preparation (3 to 6 years)
    * School age test or procedure preparation (6 to 12 years)
    * Adolescent test or procedure preparation (12 to 18 years)

## How the Test will Feel

There is some discomfort associated with this test. You may experience:

    * Bladder filling
    * Flushing
    * Nausea
    * Pain
    * Sweating
    * Urgent need to urinate

## Why the Test is Performed

The test will help determine the cause of bladder voiding dysfunction.

## Normal Results

NormalÂ results vary and should be discussed with your provider.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Enlarged prostate
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Overactive bladder
    * Reduced bladder capacity
    * Spinal cord injury
    * Stroke
    * Urinary tract infection

## Risks

There is a slight risk of urinary tract infection and blood in the urine.

## Considerations

This test should not be done if you have a known urinary tract infection.
Existing infection increases the possibility of false test results. The test
itself increases the possibility of spreading the infection.

## Alternative Names

CMG; Cystometrogram

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Lower urinary tract function and disorders: physiology of
micturition, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urinary tract
infections, and painful bladder syndrome. In:Â Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz
GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Nitti V, Brucker BM. Urodynamic and videourodynamic evaluation of voiding
dysfunction. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 73.

Yeung CK, Yang S S-D, Hoebeke P. Development and assessment of lower urinary
tract function in children. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
136.

## Review Date 10/10/2017

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

