Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000514.htm    
                                Description: Cystitis is a problem in which pain, pressure, or burning in the bladder is present. Most often, this problem is caused by germs such as bacteria. Cystitis may also be present when there is no infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cystitis - noninfectious

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000514.htm

# Cystitis - noninfectious

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cystitis is a problem in which pain, pressure, or burning in the bladder is
present. Most often, this problem is caused by germs such as bacteria.
Cystitis may also be present when there is no infection.

## Causes

The exact cause of noninfectious cystitis is often not known. It is more
common in women as compared to men.

The problem has been linked to:

    * Use of baths and feminine hygiene sprays
    * Use of spermicide jellies, gels, foams, and sponges 
    * Radiation therapy to the pelvis area
    * Certain types of chemotherapy drugs
    * History of severe or repeated bladder infections 

Certain foods, such as spicy or acidic foods, tomatoes, artificial sweeteners,
caffeine, chocolate, and alcohol, can cause bladder symptoms.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

    * Pressure or pain in the lower pelvis
    * Painful urination
    * Frequent need to urinate
    * Urgent need to urinate
    * Problems holding urine
    * Need to urinate at night
    * Abnormal urine color, cloudy urine
    * Blood in the urine
    * Foul or strong urine odor 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Pain during sexual intercourse
    * Penile or vaginal pain
    * Fatigue

## Exams and Tests

A urinalysis may reveal red blood cells (RBCs) and some white blood cells
(WBCs). Urine may be examined under a microscope to look for cancerous cells.

A urine culture (clean catch) is done to look for a bacterial infection.

A cystoscopy (use of lighted instrument to look inside the bladder) may be
done if you have:

    * Symptoms related to radiation therapy or chemotherapy
    * Symptoms that do not get better with treatment
    * Blood in the urine

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to manage your symptoms.

This may include:

    * Medicines to help your bladder relax. They can reduce the strong urge to urinate or need to urinate frequently. These are called anticholinergic drugs. Possible side effects include increased heart rate, low blood pressure, dry mouth, and constipation.
    * A medicine called phenazopyridine (pyridium) to help relieve pain and burning with urination.
    * Medicines to help reduce pain.
    * Surgery is rarely done. It may be performed if a person has symptoms that do not go away with other treatments, trouble passing urine, or blood in the urine.

Other things that may help include:

    * Avoiding foods and fluids that irritate the bladder. These include spicy and acidic foods as well as alcohol, citrus juices, and caffeine, and foods that contain them.
    * Performing bladder training exercises to help you schedule times to try to urinate and to delay urination at all other times. One method is to force yourself to delay urinating despite the urge to urinate in between these times. As you become better at waiting this long, slowly increase the time intervals by 15 minutes. Try to reach a goal of urinating every 3 to 4 hours.
    * Avoid pelvic muscle strengthening exercises called Kegel exercises. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of cystitis are uncomfortable, but the symptoms most often get
better over time. Symptoms can improve if you are able to identify and avoid
food triggers.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Ulceration of bladder wall
    * Painful sex
    * Sleep loss
    * Depression

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have symptoms of cystitis
    * You have been diagnosed with cystitis and your symptoms get worse, or you have new symptoms, especially fever, blood in the urine, back or flank pain, and vomiting

## Prevention

Avoid products that may irritate the bladder such as:

    * Bubble baths 
    * Feminine hygiene sprays 
    * Tampons (especially scented products)
    * Spermicidal jellies

If you need to use such products, try to find those that do not cause
irritation for you.

## Alternative Names

Abacterial cystitis; Radiation cystitis; Chemical cystitis; Urethral syndrome
- acute; Bladder pain syndrome; Painful bladder disease complex; Dysuria -
noninfectious cystitis; Frequent urination - noninfectious cystitis; Painful
urination - noninfectious; Interstitial cystitis

## References

American Urological Association website. Diagnosis and treatment interstitial
cystitis/bladder pain syndrome. www.auanet.org/guidelines/interstitial-
cystitis/bladder-pain-syndrome-(2011-amended-2014). Accessed April 6, 2018.

Carter C. Urinary tract disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

Hanno PM. Bladder pain syndrome (interstitial cystitis) and related disorders.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Interstitial cystitis (Painful bladder syndrome). www.niddk.nih.gov/health-
information/urologic-diseases/interstitial-cystitis-painful-bladder-syndrome.
Updated July 2017. Accessed March 29, 2018.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

