Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002238.htm    
                                Description: Bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) is a blockage at the base of the bladder. It reduces or stops the flow of urine into the urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine out of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bladder outlet obstruction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002238.htm

# Bladder outlet obstruction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) is a blockage at the base of the bladder. It
reduces or stops the flow of urine into the urethra. The urethra is the tube
that carries urine out of the body.

## Causes

This condition is common in aging men. It is often caused by enlarged
prostate. Bladder stones and bladder cancer are also more commonly seen in men
than women. As a man ages, the chances of getting these diseases increase
greatly.

Other common causes of BOO include:

    * Pelvic tumors (cervix, prostate, uterus, rectum)
    * Narrowing of the tube that carries urine out of the body from the bladder (urethra), due to scar tissue or certain birth defects

Less common causes include:

    * Cystocele (when the bladder falls into the vagina)
    * Foreign objects
    * Urethral or pelvic muscle spasms
    * Inguinal (groin) hernia

## Symptoms

The symptoms of BOO may vary, but can include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Continuous feeling of a full bladder
    * Frequent urination
    * Pain during urination (dysuria)
    * Problems starting urination (urinary hesitancy)
    * Slow, uneven urine flow, at times being unable to urinate
    * Straining to urinate
    * Urinary tract infection
    * Waking up at night to urinate (nocturia)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will ask about your symptoms and medical history.
You will undergo a physical exam.

One or more of the following problems may be found:

    * Abdominal growth
    * Cystocele (women)
    * Enlarged bladder
    * Enlarged prostate (men) 

Tests may include:

    * Blood chemistries to look for signs of kidney damage
    * Cystoscopy and retrograde urethrogram (x-ray) to look for narrowing of the urethra
    * Tests to determine how fast urine flows out of the body (uroflowmetry)
    * Tests to see how much the urine flow is blocked and how well the bladder contracts (urodynamic testing)
    * Ultrasound to locate the blockage of urine and find out how well the bladder empties
    * Urinalysis to look for blood or signs of infection in the urine
    * Urine culture to check for an infection

## Treatment

Treatment of BOO depends on its cause. A tube, called a catheter, is inserted
into the bladder through the urethra. This is done to relieve the blockage.

Sometimes, a catheter is placed through the belly area into the bladder to
drain the bladder. This is called a suprapubic tube.

Most often, you will need surgery for long-term cure of BOO. However, many of
the diseases that cause this problem can be treated with medicines. Talk to
your provider about possible treatments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most causes of BOO can be cured if diagnosed early. However, if the diagnosis
or treatment is delayed, this can cause permanent damage to the bladder or
kidneys.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of BOO.

## Alternative Names

BOO; Lower urinary tract obstruction; Prostatism; Urinary retention - BOO

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Andersson KE, Wein AJ. Pharmacologic management of lower urinary tract storage
and emptying failure. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 79.

Boone TB, Stewart JN. Additional therapies for storage and emptying failure.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

McNicholas TA, Speakman MJ, Kirby RS. Evaluation and nonsurgical management of
benign prostatic hyperplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
104.

Zeidel ML. Obstructive uropathy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

