Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002997.htm    
                                Description: Bladder exstrophy repair is surgery to repair a birth defect of the bladder. The bladder is inside out. It is fused with the abdominal wall and is exposed. The pelvic bones are also separated.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bladder exstrophy repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002997.htm

# Bladder exstrophy repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bladder exstrophy repair is surgery to repair a birth defect of the bladder.
The bladder is inside out. It is fused with the abdominal wall and is exposed.
The pelvic bones are also separated.

## Description

Bladder exstrophy repair involves two surgeries. The first surgery is to
repair the bladder. The second one is to attach the pelvic bones to each
other.

The first surgery separates the exposed bladder from the abdomen wall. The
bladder is then closed. The bladder neck and urethra are repaired. A flexible,
hollow tube called a catheter is placed to drain urine from the bladder. This
is placed through the abdominal wall. A second catheter is left in the urethra
to promote healing.

The second surgery, pelvic bone surgery, may be done along with the bladder
repair. It may also be delayed for weeks or months.

A third surgery may be needed if there is a bowel defect or any problems with
the first two repairs.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The surgery is recommended for children who are born with bladder exstrophy.
This defect occurs more often in boys and is often linked to other birth
defects.

Surgery is necessary to:

    * Allow the child to develop normal urinary control
    * Avoid future problems with sexual function
    * Improve the child's physical appearance (genitals will look more normal)
    * Prevent infection that could harm the kidneys 

Sometimes, the bladder is too small at birth. In this case, the surgery will
be delayed until the bladder has grown. These newborns are sent home on
antibiotics. The bladder, which is outside the abdomen, must be kept moist.

It can take months for the bladder to grow to the right size. The infant will
be followed closely by a medical team. The team decides when the surgery
should take place.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection

Risks with this procedure may include:

    * Chronic urinary tract infections
    * Sexual/erectile dysfunction 
    * Kidney problems
    * Need for future surgeries
    * Poor urinary control (incontinence)

## Before the Procedure

Most bladder exstrophy repairs are done when your child is only a few days
old, before leaving the hospital. In this case, the hospital staff will
prepare your child for the surgery.

If the surgery was not done when your child was a newborn, your child may need
the following tests at the time of surgery:

    * Urine test (urine culture and urinalysis) to check your child's urine for infection and to test kidney function
    * Blood tests (complete blood count, electrolytes, and kidney tests)
    * Record of urine output
    * X-ray of pelvis
    * Ultrasound of the kidneys 

Always tell your child's health care provider what medicines your child is
taking. Also let them know about the medicines or herbs you bought without a
prescription.

Ten days before the surgery, your child may be asked to stop taking aspirin,
ibuprofen, warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines. These medicines make
it hard for the blood to clot. Ask the provider which drugs your child should
still take on the day of the surgery.

On the day of the surgery:

    * Your child will usually be asked not to drink or eat anything for several hours before the surgery.
    * Give the drugs your child's provider told you to give with a small sip of water.
    * Your child's provider will tell you when to arrive. 

## After the Procedure

After pelvic bone surgery, your child will need to be in a lower body cast or
sling for 4 to 6 weeks. This helps the bones heal.

After the bladder surgery, your child will have a tube that drains the bladder
through the stomach wall (suprapubic catheter). This will be in place for 3 to
4 weeks.

Your child will also need pain management, wound care, and antibiotics. The
provider will teach you about these things before you leave the hospital.

Due to the high risk for infection, your child will need to have a urinalysis
and urine culture at every well-child visit. At the first signs of an illness,
these tests may be repeated. Some children take antibiotics on a regular basis
to prevent infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Urinary control most often happens after the neck of the bladder is repaired.
This surgery is not always successful. The child may need to repeat the
surgery later on.

Even with repeat surgery, a few children will not have control of their urine.
They may need catheterization.

## Alternative Names

Bladder birth defect repair; Everted bladder repair; Exposed bladder repair;
Repair of bladder exstrophy

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## References

Elder JS. Anomalies of the bladder. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 541.

Gearhart JP, Mathews R. Exstrophy-epispadias complex. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 139.

Mitchell ME, Grady R. Bladder and cloacal exstrophy. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy
JP, Ostlie DJ, eds. _Ashcrafts's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 58.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

