Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001063.htm    
                                Description: Traumatic injury of the bladder and urethra involves damage caused by an outside force.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Traumatic injury of the bladder and urethra

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001063.htm

# Traumatic injury of the bladder and urethra

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Traumatic injury of the bladder and urethra involves damage caused by an
outside force.

## Causes

Types of bladder injuries include:

    * Blunt trauma (such as a blow to the body)
    * Penetrating wounds (such as bullet or stab wounds)

The amount of injury to the bladder depends on:

    * How full the bladder was at the time of injury
    * What caused the injury

Injury to the bladder due to trauma is not very common. The bladder is located
within the bones of the pelvis. This protects it from most outside forces.
Injury may occur if there is a blow to the pelvis severe enough to break the
bones. In this case, bone fragments may pierce the bladder wall. Less than 1
in 10 pelvic fractures lead to bladder injury.

Other causes of bladder or urethra injury include:

    * Surgeries of the pelvis or groin (such as hernia repair and removal of the uterus).
    * Tears, cuts, bruises, and other injuries to the urethra. Urethra is the tube that carries urine out of the body. This is most common in men.
    * Straddle injuries. This injury may occur if there is direct force that injures the area behind the scrotum.
    * Deceleration injury. This injury may occur during a motor vehicle accident. Your bladder can get injured if it is full and you are wearing a seatbelt.

Injury to the bladder or urethra may cause urine to leak into the abdomen.
This may lead to infection.

## Symptoms

Some common symptoms are:

    * Lower abdominal pain
    * Abdominal tenderness
    * Bruising at the site of injury
    * Blood in the urine
    * Bloody urethral discharge
    * Difficulty beginning to urinate or inability to empty the bladder
    * Leakage of urine
    * Painful urination
    * Pelvic pain
    * Small, weak urine stream
    * Abdominal distention or bloating 

Shock or internal bleeding may occur after a bladder injury. This is a medical
emergency. Symptoms include:

    * Decreased alertness, drowsiness, coma
    * Increased heart rate
    * Decrease in blood pressure
    * Pale skin
    * Sweating
    * Skin that is cool to the touch 

If there is no or little urine released, there may be an increased risk for
urinary tract infections (UTI) or kidney damage.

## Exams and Tests

An exam of the genitals may show injury to the urethra. If the health care
provider suspects an injury, you may have the following tests:

    * Retrograde urethrogram (an x-ray of the urethra using dye) for injury of urethra
    * Retrograde cystogram (imaging of bladder) for injury of bladder

The exam may also show:

    * Bladder injury or swollen (distended) bladder 
    * Other signs of pelvic injury, such as bruising over the penis, scrotum, and perineum 
    * Signs of hemorrhage or shock, including decreased blood pressure -- especially in cases of pelvic fracture 
    * Tenderness and bladder fullness when touched (caused by urine retention) 
    * Tender and unstable pelvic bones 
    * Urine in the abdominal cavity 

A catheter may be inserted once an injury of the urethra has been ruled out.
This is a tube that drains urine from the body. An x-ray of the bladder using
dye to highlight any damage can then be done.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to:

    * Control symptoms
    * Drain the urine
    * Repair the injury
    * Prevent complications 

Emergency treatment of bleeding or shock may include:

    * Blood transfusions
    * Intravenous (IV) fluids
    * Monitoring in the hospital 

Emergency surgery may be done to repair the injury and drain the urine from
the abdominal cavity in case of extensive injury or peritonitis (inflammation
of the abdominal cavity).

The injury can be repaired with surgery in most cases. The bladder may be
drained by a catheter through the urethra or the abdominal wall (called a
suprapubic tube) over a period of days to weeks. This will prevent urine from
building up in the bladder. It will also allow the injured bladder or urethra
to heal and prevent swelling in the urethra from blocking urine flow.

If the urethra has been cut, a urological specialist can try to put a catheter
in place. If this cannot be done, a tube will be inserted through the
abdominal wall directly into the bladder. This is called a suprapubic tube. It
will be left in place until the swelling goes away and the urethra can be
repaired with surgery. This takes 3 to 6 months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Injury of the bladder and urethra due to trauma can be minor or fatal. Short
or long-term serious complications can occur.

## Possible Complications

Some of the possible complications of injury of the bladder and urethra are:

    * Bleeding, shock.
    * Blockage to the flow of urine.Â This causes the urine to back up and injureÂ one or both kidneys.
    * Scarring leading to blockage of the urethra.
    * Problems emptying the bladder completely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the local emergency number (911) or go to the emergency room if you have
an injury to bladder or urethra.

Call your provider if symptoms get worse or new symptoms develop, including:

    * Decrease in urine production
    * Fever
    * Blood in urine
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Severe flank or back pain
    * Shock or hemorrhage 

## Prevention

Prevent outside injury to the bladder and urethra by following these safety
tips:

    * Do not insert objects into the urethra.
    * If you need self-catheterization, follow the instructions of your provider.
    * Use safety equipment during work and play. 

## Alternative Names

Injury - bladder and urethra; Bruised bladder; Urethral injury; Bladder
injury; Pelvic fracture; Urethral disruption; Bladder perforation

## Images

    * ![Bladder catheterization - female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female
    * ![Bladder catheterization - male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1066t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - male
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Morey AF, Zhao LC. Genital and lower urinary tract trauma. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Shewakramani SN. Genitourinary system. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Urethral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrethralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Urethral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

