Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002993.htm    
                                Description: Patent urachus repair is surgery to fix a bladder defect. In an open (or patent) urachus, there is an opening between the bladder and the belly button (navel). The urachus is a tube between the bladder    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Patent urachus repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002993.htm

# Patent urachus repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Patent urachus repair is surgery to fix a bladder defect. In an open (or
patent) urachus, there is an opening between the bladder and the belly button
(navel). The urachus is a tube between the bladder and the belly button that
is present before birth. In most cases, it closes along its full length before
the baby is born. An open urachus occurs mostly in infants.

## Description

Children who have this surgery will have general anesthesia (asleep and pain-
free).

The surgeon will make a cut in the child's lower belly. Next, the surgeon will
find the urachal tube and remove it. The bladder opening will be repaired, and
the cut will be closed.

The surgery can also be done with a laparoscope. This is an instrument that
has a tiny camera and light on the end.

    * The surgeon will make 3 small surgical cuts in the child's belly. The surgeon will insert the laparoscope through one of these cuts and other tools through the other cuts.
    * The surgeon uses the tools to remove the urachal tube and close off the bladder and area where the tube connects to the umbilicus (belly button).

This surgery can be done in children as young as 6 months.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Surgery is recommended for a patent urachus that does not close after birth.
Problems that can occur when a patent urachal tube is not repaired include:

    * A higher risk for urinary tract infections
    * A higher risk for cancer of the urachal tube later in life
    * Continued leakage of urine from the urachus 

## Risks

Risks for any anesthesia are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs

Additional risks for this surgery are:

    * Bladder infection.
    * Bladder fistula (connection between the bladder and the skin) -- if this happens, a catheter (thin tube) is inserted into the bladder to drain urine. It is left in place until the bladder heals or additional surgery may be needed.

## Before the Procedure

The surgeon may ask your child to have:

    * A complete medical history and physical exam.
    * Kidney ultrasound.
    * Sinogram of the urachus. In this procedure, a radio-opaque dye called contrast is injected into the urachal opening and x-rays are taken.
    * Ultrasound of the urachus.
    * VCUG (voiding cystourethrogram), a special x-ray to make sure the bladder is working.
    * CT scan or MRI.

Always tell your child's health care provider:

    * What drugs your child is taking. Include drugs, herbs, vitamins, or any other supplements you bought without a prescription.
    * About any allergies your child may have to medicine, latex, tape, or skin cleaner. 

During the days before the surgery:

    * About 10 days before the surgery, you may be asked to stop giving your child aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for blood to clot.
    * Ask which drugs your child should still take on the day of the surgery. 

On the day of the surgery:

    * Your child will probably not be able to drink or eat anything for 4Â to 8 hours before surgery.
    * Give your child any drugs you haveÂ been told your child should have with a small sip of water.
    * Your child's provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.
    * The provider will make sure your child has no signs of illness before surgery. If your child is ill, the surgery may be delayed. 

## After the Procedure

Most children stay in the hospital for just a few days after this surgery.
Most recover rapidly. Children can eat their normal foods once they start
eating again.

Before leaving the hospital, you will learn how to care for the wound or
wounds. If Steri-Strips were used to close the wound, they should be left in
place until they fall off on their own in about a week.

You may get a prescription for antibiotics to prevent infection, and for a
safe medicine to use for pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is most often excellent.

## Alternative Names

Patent urachal tube repair

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Patent urachus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9667t.jpg)Patent urachus
    * ![Patent urachus repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/14002t.jpg)Patent urachus repair - series

## References

Frimberger D, Kropp BP. Bladder anomalies in children. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 138.

Katz A, Richardson W. Surgery. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

Ordon M, Eichel L, Landman J. Fundamentals of laparoscopic and robotic
urologic surgery. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 10.

Schoenwolf GC, Bleyl SB, Brauer PR, Francis-West PH. Development of the
urinary system. In: Schoenwolf GC, Bleyl SB, Brauer PR, Francis-West PH, eds.
_Larsen's Human Embryology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 15.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

