Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001275.htm    
                                Description: Bladder stones are hard buildups of minerals. These form in the urinary bladder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bladder stones

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001275.htm

# Bladder stones

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bladder stones are hard buildups of minerals. These form in the urinary
bladder.

## Causes

Bladder stones are most often caused by another urinary system problem, such
as:

    * Bladder diverticulum 
    * Blockage at the base of the bladder
    * Enlarged prostate (BPH)
    * Neurogenic bladder
    * Urinary tract infection (UTI)
    * Incomplete emptying of bladder
    * Foreign objects in the bladder

Almost all bladder stones occur in men. Bladder stones are much less common
than kidney stones.

Bladder stones may occur when urine in the bladder is concentrated. Materials
in the urine form crystals. These may also result from foreign objects in the
bladder.

## Symptoms

Symptoms occur when the stone irritates the lining of the bladder. The stones
may also block the flow of urine from the bladder.

Symptoms can include:

    * Abdominal pain, pressure
    * Abnormally colored or dark-colored urine
    * Blood in the urine
    * Difficulty urinating
    * Frequent urge to urinate
    * Inability to urinate except in certain positions
    * Interruption of the urine stream
    * Pain, discomfort in the penis
    * Signs of UTI (such as fever, pain when urinating, and need to urinate often)

Loss of urine control may also occur with bladder stones.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This will also include
a rectal exam. The exam may reveal an enlarged prostate or other problems.

The following tests may be done:

    * Bladder or pelvic x-ray 
    * Cystoscopy
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture (clean catch) 
    * Abdominal ultrasound or CT scan

## Treatment

You may be able to help small stones pass on their own. Drinking 6 to 8
glasses of water or more per day will increase urination.

Your provider may remove stones that do not pass using a cystoscope. A small
telescope will be passed through the urethra into the bladder. A laser or
other device will be used to break up the stones and the pieces will be
removed. Some stones may need to be removed using open surgery.

Drugs are rarely used to dissolve the stones.

Causes of bladder stones should be treated. Most commonly, bladder stones are
seen with BPH or blockage at the base of the bladder. You may need surgery to
remove the inside part of the prostate or to repair the bladder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most bladder stones pass on their own or can be removed. They do not cause
permanent damage to the bladder. They may come back if the cause is not
corrected.

Left untreated, stones may cause repeated UTI. This can also cause permanent
damage to the bladder or kidneys.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of bladder stones.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of UTI or other urinary tract conditions may help prevent
bladder stones.

## Alternative Names

Stones - bladder; Urinary tract stones; Bladder calculi

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - self-care
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Benway BM, Bhayani SB. Lower urinary tract calculi. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

Germann CA, Holmes JA. Selected urologic disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

