Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007113.htm    
                                Description: Lithotripsy is a procedure that uses shock waves to break up stones in the kidney and parts of the ureter (tube that carries urine from your kidneys to your bladder). After the procedure, the tiny pieces    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lithotripsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007113.htm

# Lithotripsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lithotripsy is a procedure that uses shock waves to break up stones in the
kidney and parts of the ureter (tube that carries urine from your kidneys to
your bladder). After the procedure, the tiny pieces of stones pass out of your
body in your urine.

## Description

Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is the most common type of
lithotripsy. "Extracorporeal" means outside the body.

To get ready for the procedure, you will put on a hospital gown and lie on an
exam table on top of a soft, water-filled cushion. You will not get wet.

You will be given medicine for pain or to help you relax before the procedure
starts. You will also be given antibiotics.

When you have the procedure, you may be given general anesthesia for the
procedure. You will be asleep and pain-free.

High-energy shock waves, also called sound waves, guided by x-ray or
ultrasound, will pass through your body until they hit the kidney stones. If
you are awake, you may feel a tapping feeling when this starts. The waves
break the stones into tiny pieces.

The lithotripsy procedure should take about 45 minutes to 1 hour.

A tube called a stent may be placed through your back or bladder into your
kidney. This tube will drain urine from your kidney until all the small pieces
of stone pass out of your body. This may be done before or after your
lithotripsy treatment.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Lithotripsy is used to remove kidney stones that are causing:

    * Bleeding
    * Damage to your kidney
    * Pain
    * Urinary tract infections 

Not all kidney stones can be removed using lithotripsy. The stone may also be
removed with:

    * A tube (endoscope) inserted into the kidney through a small surgical cut in the back.
    * A small lighted tube (ureteroscope) inserted through the bladder into ureters. Ureters are the tubes that connect the kidneys to the bladder.
    * Open surgery (rarely needed). 

## Risks

Lithotripsy is safe most of the time. Talk to your health care provider about
possible complications such as:

    * Bleeding around your kidney, which may require you to get a blood transfusion.
    * Kidney infection.
    * Pieces of the stone block urine flow from your kidney (this may cause severe pain or damage to your kidney). If this happens, you may need additional procedures.
    * Pieces of stone are left in your body (you may need more treatments).
    * Ulcers in your stomach or small intestine.
    * Problems with kidney function after the procedure.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What drugs you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

During the days before the surgery:

    * You will be asked to stop taking blood thinners such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot. Ask your provider when to stop taking them.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of the surgery. 

On the day of your procedure:

    * You may not be allowed to drink or eat anything for several hours before the procedure.
    * Take the drugs you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

After the procedure, you will stay in the recovery room for up to about 2
hours. Most people are able to go home the day of their procedure. You will be
given a urine strainer to catch the bits of stone passed in your urine.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the number of stones you have, their size, and
where in your urinary system they are. Most of the time, lithotripsy removes
all the stones.

## Alternative Names

Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy; Shock wave lithotripsy; Laser
lithotripsy; Percutaneous lithotripsy; Endoscopic lithotripsy; ESWL; Renal
calculi-lithotripsy

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - self-care
    * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Nephrolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17091t.jpg)Nephrolithiasis
    * ![Intravenous pyelogram \(IVP\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19245t.jpg)Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * ![Lithotripsy procedure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19246t.jpg)Lithotripsy procedure

## References

Bushinsky DA. Nephrolithiasis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 117.

Matlaga BR, Krambeck AE, Lingeman JE. Surgical management of upper urinary
tract calculi. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 54.

Zumstein V, Betschart P, Abt D, Schmid HP, Panje CM, Putora PM. Surgical
management of urolithiasis - a systematic analysis of available guidelines.
_BMC Urol_. 2018;18(1):25. PMID: 29636048
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29636048.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

