Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000273.htm    
                                Description: You had cosmetic breast surgery to change the size or shape of your breasts. You may have had a breast lift, breast reduction, or breast augmentation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000273.htm

# Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had cosmetic breast surgery to change the size or shape of your breasts.
You may have had a breast lift, breast reduction, or breast augmentation.

Follow your doctor's instructions on self-care at home. Use the information
below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

You were probably under general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free). Or you had
local anesthesia (awake and pain-free). Your surgery took at least 1 or more
hours, depending on the type of procedure you had.

You woke up with a gauze dressing or surgical bra around your breast and chest
area. You may also have drainage tubes coming from your incision areas. Some
pain and swelling is normal after the anesthesia wears off. You may also feel
tired. Rest and gentle activity will help you recover. Your nurse will help
you begin to move around.

Depending on the type of surgery you had, you spent 1 to 2 days in the
hospital.

## What to Expect at Home

It is normal to have pain, bruising, and swelling of the breast or incisions
after you get home. Within a few days or weeks, these symptoms will go away.
You may have a loss of sensation in your breast skin and nipples after
surgery. Sensation may return over time.

You may need help with your everyday activities for a few days until your pain
and swelling decrease.

## Activity

While you are healing, limit your physical activities so that you do not
stretch your incisions. Try taking short walks as soon as possible to promote
blood flow and healing. You may be able to do some activity 1 to 2 days after
surgery.

Your health care provider may show you special exercises and breast-massaging
techniques. Do these at home if your provider has recommended them.

Ask your provider when you can go back to work or start other activities. You
may need to wait 7 to 14 days or even longer.

DO NOT do any heavy lifting, strenuous exercise, or overstretching your arms
for 3 to 6 weeks. Exertion can increase blood pressure, and lead to bleeding.

DO NOT drive for at least 2 weeks. DO NOT drive if you are taking narcotic
pain medicines. You should have full range of motion in your arms before you
start driving again. Ease into driving slowly, since turning the wheel and
shifting gears may be difficult.

## Wound Care

You'll need to return to your doctor in a few days to have the drainage tubes
removed. Any stitches will be removed within 2 weeks after surgery. If your
incisions are covered with surgical glue it doesn't need to be removed and
will wear off.

Keep the dressings or adhesive strips on your incisions for as long as your
doctor told you to. Make sure you have extra bandages in case you need them.
You will need to change them daily.

Keep the incision areas clean, dry, and covered. Check daily for signs of
infection (redness, pain, or drainage).

Once you no longer need dressings, wear a soft, wireless, supportive bra night
and day for 2 to 4 weeks.

You may shower after 2 days (if your drainage tubes have been removed). DO NOT
take baths, soak in a hot tub, or go swimming until stitches and drains are
removed and your doctor says it is OK.

Incision scars may take several months to more than a year to fade. Follow
your provider's instructions on how to care for the scars to help reduce their
appearance. Protect your scars with a strong sunblock (SPF 30 or higher)
whenever you are out in the sun.

## Other Self-care

Make sure you eat healthy foods, including lots of fruits and vegetables.
Drink plenty of fluids. A healthy diet and plenty of fluids promote bowel
movements and prevent infection.

Your pain should go away over several weeks. Take any pain medicines as your
provider told you to. Take them with food and plenty of water. DO NOT apply
ice or heat to your breasts unless your doctor tells you that it is OK.

DO NOT drink alcohol while you are taking pain medicines. DO NOT take aspirin,
aspirin-containing drugs, or ibuprofen without your doctor's approval. Ask
your doctor which vitamins, supplements, and other medicines are safe to take.

DO NOT smoke. Smoking slows healing and increases your risk of complications
and infection.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call if you have:

    * Increasing pain, redness, swelling, yellow or green drainage, bleeding, or bruising at the incision site(s)
    * Side effects from medicines, such as rash, nausea, vomiting, or headache
    * A fever of 100Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * Numbness or loss of motion 

Also call your doctor if you notice the sudden swelling of your breast.

## Alternative Names

Breast augmentation - discharge; Breast implants - discharge; Implants -
breast - discharge; Breast lift with augmentation - discharge; Breast
reduction - discharge

## References

Calobrace MB. Breast augmentation. In: Peter RJ, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic
Surgery, Volume 5: Breast_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

Powers KL, Phillips LG. Breast reconstruction. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
35.

## Read More

    * Breast augmentation surgery
    * Breast lift
    * Breast reconstruction - implants 
    * Breast reconstruction - natural tissue
    * Breast reduction
    * Mastectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Mastectomy - discharge 
    * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 1/30/2019

Updated by: David A. Lickstein, MD, FACS, specializing in cosmetic and
reconstructive plastic surgery, Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Plastic and Cosmetic Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

