Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002987.htm    
                                Description: Dermabrasion is the removal of the top layers of the skin. It is a type of skin-smoothing surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dermabrasion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002987.htm

# Dermabrasion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dermabrasion is the removal of the top layers of the skin. It is a type of
skin-smoothing surgery.

## Description

Dermabrasion is usually done by a doctor, either a plastic surgeon or
dermatologic surgeon. The procedure take place in your doctor's office or an
outpatient clinic.

You'll likely be awake. A numbing medicine (local anesthesia) will be applied
to the skin that will be treated.

If you are having a complex procedure, you may be given medicines called
sedatives to make you sleepy and less anxious. Another option is general
anesthesia, which allows you to sleep through surgery and not feel any pain
during the procedure.

Dermabrasion uses a special device to gently and carefully "sand down" the top
surface of the skin down to normal, healthy skin. Petroleum jelly or
antibiotic ointment is placed on the treated skin to prevent scabs and scars
from forming.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Dermabrasion may be helpful if you have:

    * Age-related skin growths
    * Fine lines and wrinkles, such as around the mouth
    * Precancerous growths
    * Scars on the face due to acne, accidents, or previous surgery 
    * Reduce the appearance of sun damage and photo-aging

For many of these conditions, other treatments can be done, such as laser or
chemical peels, or medicine injected into the skin. Talk to your provider
about treatment options for your skin problem.

## Risks

Risks of any anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of dermabrasion include:

    * Lasting skin color changes with the skin staying lighter, darker, or pinker
    * Scars

## After the Procedure

After the procedure:

    * Your skin will be red and swollen. It may be hard for you to eat and talk. Swelling usually goes away within 2 to 3 weeks.
    * You may feel aching, tingling, or burning for a while. The doctor can prescribe medicine to help control pain.
    * If you've had cold sores (herpes) before, your doctor may give you antiviral medicine to prevent an outbreak.
    * Follow your doctor's instructions on skin care after you go home.

During healing:

    * The new layer of skin will be a little swollen, sensitive, itchy, and bright pink for several weeks.
    * Most people can go back to normal activities in about 2 weeks. You should avoid any activity that could cause injury to the treated area. Avoid sports that involve balls, such as baseball, for 4 to 6 weeks.
    * For about 3 weeks after surgery, your skin will turn red when you drink alcohol.
    * Men who have this procedure may need to avoid shaving for a while, and use an electric razor when shaving again.

Protect your skin from the sun for 6 to 12 months until your skin color has
returned to normal. You can wear hypoallergenic make-up to hide any changes in
skin color. New skin should closely match the surrounding skin when full color
returns.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If your skin remains red and swollen after healing has started, it may be a
sign that abnormal scars are forming. Tell your doctor if this happens.
Treatment may be available.

People with dark skin are at greater risk of having dark patches of skin after
the procedure.

## Alternative Names

Skin planing

## Images

    * ![Skin smoothing surgery - series - Indication](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10307t.jpg)Skin smoothing surgery - series

## References

Monheit GD, Chastain MA. Chemical and mechanical skin resurfacing. In:
Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 154.

Perkins SW, Waters HH. Management of aging skin. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 26.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![Scars](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scars_thumb.jpg)Scars _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

