Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002978.htm    
                                Description: Abdominal wall surgery is a procedure that improves the appearance of flabby, stretched-out abdominal (belly) muscles and skin. It is also called a tummy tuck. It can range from a simple mini-tummy tuck    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal wall surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002978.htm

# Abdominal wall surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal wall surgery is a procedure that improves the appearance of flabby,
stretched-out abdominal (belly) muscles and skin. It is also called a tummy
tuck. It can range from a simple mini-tummy tuck to more extensive surgery.

Abdominal wall surgery is not the same as liposuction, which is another way to
remove fat. But, abdominal wall surgery is sometimes combined with
liposuction.

## Description

Your surgery will be done in an operating room in a hospital. You will receive
general anesthesia. This will keep you asleep and pain-free during the
procedure. The surgery takes 2 to 6 hours. You can expect to stay in the
hospital for 1 to 3 days after surgery.

After you receive anesthesia, your surgeon will make a cut (incision) across
your abdomen to open up the area. This cut will be just above your pubic area.

Your surgeon will remove fatty tissue and loose skin from the middle and lower
sections of your abdomen to make it firmer and flatter. In extended surgeries,
the surgeon also removes excess fat and skin (love handles) from the sides of
the abdomen. Your abdominal muscles may be tightened also.

Mini abdominoplasty is performed when there are areas of fat pockets (love
handles). It can be done with much smaller cuts.

Your surgeon will close your cut with stitches. Small tubes called drains may
be inserted to allow fluid to drain out of your cut. These will be removed
later.

A firm elastic dressing (bandage) will be placed over your abdomen.

For less complicated surgery, your surgeon may use a medical device called an
endoscope. Endoscopes are tiny cameras that are inserted into the skin through
very small cuts. They are connected to a video monitor in the operating room
that allows the surgeon to see the area being worked on. Your surgeon will
remove excess fat with other small tools that are inserted through other small
cuts. This surgery is called endoscopic surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Most of the time, this surgery is an elective or cosmetic procedure because it
is an operation you choose to have. It is not usually needed for health
reasons. Cosmetic abdomen repair can help improve appearance, particularly
after a lot of weight gain or loss. It helps flatten the lower abdomen and
tighten stretched skin.

It may also help relieve skin rashes or infections that develop under large
flaps of skin.

Abdominoplasty can be helpful when:

    * Diet and exercise have not helped improve muscle tone, such as in women who have had more than one pregnancy.
    * Skin and muscle cannot regain its normal tone. This can be a problem for very overweight people who lost a lot of weight. 

This procedure is a major surgery. Be sure you understand the risks and
benefits before having it.

Abdominoplasty is not used as an alternative to weight loss.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Excessive scarring
    * Loss of skin
    * Nerve damage that can cause pain or numbness in part of your belly
    * Poor healing 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon or nurse:

    * If you could be pregnant
    * What medicines you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

Before surgery:

    * Several days before surgery, you may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and others.
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking increases the risk for problems such as slow healing. Ask your health care provider for help quitting. 

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You will have some pain and discomfort for several days after surgery. Your
surgeon will prescribe pain medicine to help you manage your pain. It may help
to rest with your legs and hips bent during recovery to reduce pressure on
your abdomen.

Wearing an elastic support similar to a girdle for 2 to 3 weeks will provide
extra support while you heal. You should avoid strenuous activity and anything
that makes you strain for 4 to 6 weeks. You will probably be able to return to
work in 2 to 4 weeks.

Your scars will become flatter and lighter in color over the next year. DO NOT
expose the area to sun, because it can worsen the scar and darken the color.
Keep it covered when you are out in the sun.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people are happy with the results of abdominoplasty. Many feel a new
sense of self-confidence.

## Alternative Names

Cosmetic surgery of the abdomen; Tummy tuck; Abdominoplasty

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Abdominoplasty - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19108t.jpg)Abdominoplasty - series
    * ![Abdominal muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9405t.jpg)Abdominal muscles

## References

McGrath MH, Pomerantz JH. Plastic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
68.

Richter DF, Schwaiger N. Abdominoplasty procedures. In: Rubin JP, Neligan PC,
eds. _Plastic Surgery, Volume 2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 23.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

