Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007402.htm    
                                Description: A breast lift, or mastopexy, is cosmetic breast surgery to lift the breasts. The surgery may also involve changing the position of the areola and nipple.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast lift

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007402.htm

# Breast lift

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breast lift, or mastopexy, is cosmetic breast surgery to lift the breasts.
The surgery may also involve changing the position of the areola and nipple.

## Description

Cosmetic breast surgery can be done at an outpatient surgery clinic or in a
hospital.

You will likely receive general anesthesia. This is medicine that keeps you
asleep and pain-free. Or, you may receive medicine to help you relax and local
anesthesia to numb the area around the breasts to block pain. You will be
awake but unable to feel pain.

The surgeon will make 1 to 3 surgical cuts (incision) in your breast. Extra
skin will be removed and your nipple and areola may be moved.

Sometimes, women have breast augmentation (enlargement with implants) when
they have a breast lift.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Cosmetic breast surgery is surgery you choose to have. You do not need it for
medical reasons.

Women usually have breast lifts to lift sagging, loose breasts. Pregnancy,
breastfeeding, and normal aging may cause a woman to have stretched skin and
smaller breasts.

You should probably wait to have a breast lift if you are:

    * Planning to lose weight
    * Pregnant or still nursing a child
    * Planning to have more children 

Talk with a plastic surgeon if you are considering cosmetic breast surgery.
Discuss how you expect to look and feel better. Keep in mind that the desired
result is improvement, not perfection.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks of breast surgery are:

    * Inability to nurse a baby after surgery
    * Large scars that take a long time to heal
    * Loss of sensation around the nipples
    * One breast that is larger than the other (asymmetry of the breasts)
    * Uneven position of the nipples 

The emotional risks of surgery may include feeling that both breasts do not
look perfectly balanced or they may not look like what you expected.

## Before the Procedure

Ask your surgeon if you need a screening mammogram based on your age and risk
of having breast cancer. This should be done long enough before surgery so if
more imaging or a biopsy is needed, your planned surgery date won't be
delayed.

Tell your surgeon or nurse:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What medicines you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

The week or two before surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinning medicines. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), and others.
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking increases the risk for problems such as slow healing. Ask your health care provider for help quitting. 

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Wear or bring loose clothing that buttons or zips in front.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

You may have to stay overnight in the hospital.

A gauze dressing (bandage) will be wrapped around your breasts and chest. Or,
you will wear a surgical bra. Wear the surgical bra or a soft supportive bra
for as long as your surgeon tells you to. This will likely be for several
weeks.

Drainage tubes may be attached to your breasts. These will be removed within a
few days.

Your pain should decrease in a few weeks. Ask your surgeon if you can take
acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil) to help with pain instead of a
narcotic medicine. If you do use a narcotic medicine, be sure to take it with
food and plenty of water. DO NOT apply ice or heat to your breasts unless your
doctor has told you that is OK.

Ask your surgeon when it is OK to shower or bathe.

Follow any other self-care instructions you are given.

Schedule a follow-up visit with your surgeon. At that time, you will be
checked for how you are healing. Sutures (stitches) will be removed if needed.
The surgeon or nurse may discuss special exercises or massaging techniques
with you.

You may need to wear a special supportive bra for a few months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You are likely to have a very good outcome from breast surgery. You may feel
better about your appearance and yourself.

Scars are permanent and are often very visible for up to a year after surgery.
After a year, they may fade but will not become invisible. Your surgeon will
try to place the cuts so that scars are hidden from view. Surgical cuts are
usually made on the underside of the breast and around the edge of the areola.
Your scars will generally not be noticeable, even in low-cut clothing.

Normal aging, pregnancy, and changes in your weight may all cause your breasts
to sag again.

## Alternative Names

Mastopexy; Breast lift with reduction; Breast lift with augmentation

## Patient Instructions

    * Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge

## References

American Board of Cosmetic Surgery website. Breast augmentation guide.
www.americanboardcosmeticsurgery.org/procedure-learning-center/breast/breast-
augmentation-guide. Accessed April 3, 2019.

Calobrace MB. Breast augmentation. In: Nahabedian MY, Neligan PC, eds.
_Plastic Surgery: Volume 5: Breast_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 4.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

