Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007405.htm    
                                Description: Breast reduction is surgery to reduce the size of the breasts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast reduction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007405.htm

# Breast reduction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breast reduction is surgery to reduce the size of the breasts.

## Description

Breast reduction surgery is done under general anesthesia. This is medicine
that keeps you asleep and pain-free.

For a breast reduction, the surgeon removes some of the breast tissue and
skin. Your nipples may be moved higher to reposition them for cosmetic
reasons.

In the most common procedure:

    * The surgeon makes three surgical cuts (incisions) around the areola (the dark area around your nipples), from the areola down to the crease under your breast, and across the lower crease of your breast.
    * Extra fat, skin, and breast tissue are removed. The nipple and areola are moved to a higher position. Often the areola is made smaller.
    * The surgeon closes the cuts with stitches to reshape the breast.
    * Sometimes liposuction is combined with breast reduction to improve the shape of the breast and armpit areas. 

The procedure can last 2 to 5 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Breast reduction may be recommended if you have very large breasts
(macromastia) and:

    * Chronic pain that affects your quality of life. You may be having headaches, neck pain, or shoulder pain.
    * Chronic nerve problems caused by poor posture, which result in numbness or tingling in your arms or hands.
    * Cosmetic problems, such as persistent bra-strap groove, scar-like lines in the skin (striae), difficulty finding clothes that fit, and low self-confidence.
    * Chronic rashes under your breasts.
    * Unwelcome attention that is making you feel awkward.
    * Inability to participate in sports. 

Some women may benefit from non-surgical treatments, such as:

    * Exercising to strengthen their back and shoulder muscles
    * Losing excess weight
    * Wearing supportive bras 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks of this procedure are:

    * Difficulty breastfeeding, or being unable to breastfeed
    * Large scars that take a long time to heal
    * Loss of feeling in the nipple area
    * Uneven position of the nipples or differences in the size of the breasts 

## Before the Procedure

Ask your surgeon if you need a screening mammogram based on your age and risk
of having breast cancer. This should be done long enough before surgery so if
more imaging or a biopsy is needed, your planned surgery date won't be
delayed.

Tell your surgeon or nurse:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What medicines you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

The week or two before surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinning medicines. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Mortin),Â warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), and others.
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking slows healing and increases the risk for problems. Ask your provider for help quitting. 

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Wear or bring loose clothing that buttons or zips in front.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

You may have to stay overnight in the hospital.

A gauze dressing (bandage) will be wrapped around your breasts and chest. Or,
you will wear a surgical bra. Wear the surgical bra or a soft supportive bra
for as long as your surgeon tells you to. This will likely be for several
weeks.

Drainage tubes may be attached to your breasts. These tubes will be removed
within a few days.

Your pain should decrease in a few weeks. Ask your surgeon if you can take
acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil) to help with pain instead of a
narcotic medicine. If you do use a narcotic medicine, be sure to take it with
food and plenty of water. DO NOT apply ice or heat to your breasts unless your
doctor has told you that is OK.

Ask your surgeon when it is OK to shower or bathe.

Within a few weeks, the swelling and bruising around your incisions should
disappear. You may have a temporary loss of sensation in your breast skin and
nipples after surgery. Sensation may return over time.

Follow any other self-care instructions you are given.

Schedule a follow-up visit with your surgeon. At that time you will be checked
for how you are healing. Sutures (stitches) will be removed if needed. Your
provider may discuss special exercises or massaging techniques with you.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You are likely to have a very good outcome from breast reduction surgery. You
may feel better about your appearance and be more comfortable with various
activities.

Pain or skin symptoms, such as striation, may disappear. You may need to wear
a special supportive bra for a few months for comfort and to help with
healing.

Scars are permanent. They will be more visible for the first year, but will
then fade. The surgeon will make every effort to place the surgical cuts so
that scars are hidden. Cuts are usually made on the underside of the breast
and around the areola. Most of the time, the scars should not be noticeable,
even in low-cut clothing.

## Alternative Names

Reduction mammoplasty; Macromastia - reduction

## Patient Instructions

    * Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Mammoplasty](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1106t.jpg)Mammoplasty

## References

American Board of Cosmetic Surgery website. Breast reduction guide.
www.americanboardcosmeticsurgery.org/procedure-learning-center/breast/breast-
reduction-guide. Accessed April 3, 2019.

Lista F, Austin RE, Ahmad J. Reduction mammaplasty with short scar techniques.
In: Nahabedian MY, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 5: Breast_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 10.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

