Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002980.htm    
                                Description: Head and face reconstruction is surgery to repair or reshape deformities of the head and face (craniofacial).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Head and face reconstruction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002980.htm

# Head and face reconstruction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Head and face reconstruction is surgery to repair or reshape deformities of
the head and face (craniofacial).

## Description

How surgery for head and face deformities (craniofacial reconstruction) is
done depends on the type and severity of deformity, and the person's
condition. The medical term for this surgery is craniofacial reconstruction.

Surgical repairs involve the skull (cranium), brain, nerves, eyes, and the
bones and skin of the face. That is why sometimes a plastic surgeon (for skin
and face) and a neurosurgeon (brain and nerves) work together. Head and neck
surgeons also perform craniofacial reconstruction operations.

The surgery is done while you are deep asleep and pain-free (under general
anesthesia). The surgery may take 4 to 12 hours or more. Some of the bones of
the face are cut and moved. During the surgery, tissues are moved and blood
vessels and nerves are reconnected using microscopic surgery techniques.

Pieces of bone (bone grafts) may be taken from the pelvis, ribs, or skull to
fill in spaces where bones of the face and head were moved. Small screws and
plates made of titanium or a fixation device made of absorbable material may
be used to hold the bones in place. Implants may also be used. The jaws may be
wired together to hold the new bone positions in place. To cover the holes,
flaps may be taken from the hand, buttocks, chest wall, or thigh.

Sometimes the surgery causes swelling of the face, mouth, or neck, which may
last for weeks. This can block the airway. For this, you may need to have a
temporary tracheostomy. This is a small hole that is made in your neck through
which a tube (endotracheal tube) is placed in the airway (trachea). This
allows you to breathe when your face and upper airway are swollen.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Craniofacial reconstruction may be done if there are:

    * Birth defects and deformities from conditions such as cleft lip or palate, craniosynostosis, Apert syndrome
    * Deformities caused by surgery done to treat tumors
    * Injuries to the head, face, or jaw
    * Tumors

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Problems breathing
    * Reactions to medicines
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks for surgery of the head and face are:

    * Nerve (cranial nerve dysfunction) or brain damage
    * Need for follow-up surgery, especially in growing children
    * Partial or total loss of bone grafts
    * Permanent scarring 

These complications are more common in people who:

    * Smoke
    * Have poor nutrition
    * Have other medical conditions, such as lupus
    * Have poor blood circulation
    * Have past nerve damage 

## After the Procedure

You may spend the first 2 days after surgery in the intensive care unit. If
you do not have a complication, you will be able to leave the hospital within
1 week. Complete healing may take 6 weeks or more. Swelling will improve over
the following months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A much more normal appearance can be expected after surgery. Some people need
to have follow-up procedures during the next 1 to 4 years.

It is important not to play contact sports for 2 to 6 months after surgery.

People who have had a serious injury often need to work through the emotional
issues of the trauma and the change in their appearance. Children and adults
who have had a serious injury may have post-traumatic stress disorder,
depression, and anxiety disorders. Talking to a mental health professional or
joining a support group can be helpful.

Parents of children with deformities of the face often feel guilty or ashamed,
especially when the deformities are due to a genetic condition. As children
grow and become aware of their appearance, emotional symptoms may develop or
get worse.

## Alternative Names

Craniofacial reconstruction; Orbital-craniofacial surgery; Facial
reconstruction

## Images

    * ![Skull](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8795t.jpg)Skull
    * ![Skull](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9057t.jpg)Skull
    * ![Cleft lip repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7055t.jpg)Cleft lip repair - series
    * ![Craniofacial reconstruction - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10121t.jpg)Craniofacial reconstruction - series

## References

Baker SR. Reconstruction of facial defects. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V,
et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 24.

McGrath MH, Pomerantz JH. Plastic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
68.

## Review Date 5/15/2019

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology â Head and Neck
Surgery, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

