Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002988.htm    
                                Description: Cosmetic ear surgery is a procedure to improve the appearance of the ear. The most common procedure is to move very large or prominent ears closer to the head.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cosmetic ear surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002988.htm

# Cosmetic ear surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cosmetic ear surgery is a procedure to improve the appearance of the ear. The
most common procedure is to move very large or prominent ears closer to the
head.

## Description

Cosmetic ear surgery may be done in the surgeon's office, an outpatient
clinic, or a hospital. It can be performed under local anesthesia, which numbs
the area around the ears. You may also receive medicine to make you relaxed
and sleepy. Or, it can be done under general anesthesia, in which you are
asleep and pain-free. The procedure usually lasts about 2 hours.

During the most common method of cosmetic ear surgery, the surgeon makes a cut
in the back of the ear and removes the skin to see the ear cartilage. The
cartilage is folded to reshape the ear, bringing it closer to the head.
Sometimes the surgeon will cut the cartilage before folding it. Sometimes skin
is removed from behind the ear. Stitches are used to close the wound.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The procedure is often done to reduce self-consciousness or embarrassment of
the unusual shape of the ears.

In children, the procedure can be done after they are 5 or 6 years old, when
ear growth is almost finished. If the ears are very disfigured (lop ears), the
child should have surgery early to avoid possible emotional stress.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection

Risks of cosmetic ear surgery include:

    * Areas of numbness
    * Collection of blood (hematoma)
    * Increased feeling of cold
    * Recurrence of the ear deformity
    * Keloids and other scars
    * Poor results 

## Before the Procedure

Women should tell the surgeon if they are or think they are pregnant.

For the one week before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking blood
thinners. These medicines may cause increased bleeding during the surgery.

    * Some of these drugs are aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
    * If you are taking warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), apixaban (Eliquis), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or clopidogrel (Plavix), talk with your surgeon before stopping or changing how you take these drugs. 

During the days before your surgery:

    * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Always let your health care provider know if you have a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or any other illness in the time leading up to your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery. This includes using chewing gum and breath mints. Rinse your mouth with water if it feels dry. Be careful not to swallow.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive on time for the surgery. 

Be sure to follow any other specific instructions from your surgeon.

## After the Procedure

The ears are covered with thick bandages after surgery. Usually, you can go
home after you are awake from the anesthesia.

Any tenderness and discomfort can be controlled with medicine. The ear
bandages are removed after 2 to 4 days. A head wrap or headband needs to be
worn for 2 to 3 weeks to help the area heal.

Be sure to call your surgeon if you have severe ear pain. This can be due to
infection of the ear cartilage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Scars are very light and are hidden in the creases behind the ears.

A second procedure may be needed if the ear sticks out again.

## Alternative Names

Otoplasty; Ear pinning; Ear surgery - cosmetic; Ear reshaping; Pinnaplasty

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy
    * ![Eardrum repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7077t.jpg)Eardrum repair - series
    * ![Ear surgery - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7081t.jpg)Ear surgery - series

## References

Adamson PA, Doud Galli SK, Kim AJ. Otoplasty. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 31.

Thorne CH. Otoplasty and ear reduction. In: Rubin JP, Neligan PC, eds.
_Plastic Surgery: Volume 2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.Â

## Review Date 11/15/2017

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology â Head and Neck
Surgery, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

