Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002984.htm    
                                Description: Breast augmentation is a procedure to enlarge or change the shape of the breasts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast augmentation surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002984.htm

# Breast augmentation surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breast augmentation is a procedure to enlarge or change the shape of the
breasts.

## Description

Breast augmentation is done by placing implants behind breast tissue or under
the chest muscle.

An implant is a sac filled with either sterile salt water (saline) or a
material called silicone.

The surgery is done at an outpatient surgery clinic or in a hospital.

    * Most women receive general anesthesia for this surgery. You will be asleep and pain-free.
    * If you receive local anesthesia, you will be awake and will receive medicine to numb your breast area to block pain. 

There are different ways to place breast implants:

    * In the most common technique, the surgeon makes a cut (incision) on the underside of your breast, in the natural skin fold. The surgeon places the implant through this opening. Your scar may be a little more visible if you are younger, thin, and have not yet had children.
    * The implant may be placed through a cut under your arm. The surgeon may perform this surgery using an endoscope. This is a tool with a camera and surgical instruments at the end. The endoscope is inserted through the cut. There will be no scar around your breast. But, you may have a visible scar on the underside of your arm.
    * The surgeon may make a cut around the edge of your areola This is the darkened area around your nipple. The implant is placed through this opening. You may have more problems with breastfeeding and loss of sensation around the nipple with this method.
    * A saline implant may be placed through a cut near your belly button. An endoscope is used to move the implant up to the breast area. Once in place, the implant is filled with saline. 

The type of implant and implant surgery can affect:

    * How much pain you have after the procedure
    * The appearance of your breast
    * The risk for the implant breaking or leaking in the future
    * Your future mammograms 

Your surgeon can help you decide which procedure is best for you.

![Breast lift](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200041t.gif)Watch
this video about:Breast lift

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Breast augmentation is done to increase the size of your breasts. It may also
be done to change the shape of your breasts or to correct a defect you are
born with (congenital deformity).

Talk with a plastic surgeon if you are considering breast augmentation.
Discuss how you expect to look and feel better. Keep in mind the desired
result is improvement, not perfection.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks for breast surgery are:

    * Difficulty breastfeeding
    * Loss of feeling in the nipple area
    * Small scars, often in an area where they do not show much
    * Thickened, raised scars
    * Uneven position of nipples
    * Different sizes or shapes of the two breasts
    * Breaking or leakage of the implant
    * Visible rippling of the implant
    * Need for more breast surgery 

It is normal for your body to create a "capsule" made up of scar tissue around
your new breast implant. This helps keep the implant in place. Sometimes, this
capsule becomes thickened and larger. This may cause a change in the shape of
your breast, hardening of breast tissue, or some pain.

A rare type of lymphoma has been reported with some types of implants.

Emotional risks for this surgery may include feeling that your breasts do not
look perfect. Or, you may be disappointed with people's reactions to your
"new" breasts.

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What medicines you are taking, including medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

During the days before your surgery:

    * You may need mammograms or breast x-rays before surgery. The plastic surgeon will do a routine breast exam.
    * Several days before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of surgery.
    * You may need to fill prescriptions for pain medicine before surgery.
    * Arrange for someone to drive you home after surgery and help you around the house for 1 or 2 days.
    * If you smoke, it is important to stop. Smoking can cause problems with healing. Your surgeon may postpone surgery if you continue to smoke. Ask your provider for help quitting.

On the day of the surgery:

    * You will usually be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before surgery.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Wear or bring loose clothing that buttons or zips in front. And bring a soft, loose-fitting bra with no underwire.
    * Arrive on time at the outpatient clinic or hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will likely go home when the anesthesia wears off and you can walk, drink
water, and get to the bathroom safely.

After breast augmentation surgery, a bulky gauze dressing will be wrapped
around your breasts and chest. Or, you might wear a surgical bra. Drainage
tubes may be attached to your breasts. These will be removed within 3 days.

The surgeon may also recommend massaging the breasts starting 5 days after
surgery. Massaging helps reduce hardening of the capsule that surrounds the
implant. Ask your provider first before massaging over your implants.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You are likely to have a very good outcome from breast surgery. You may feel
better about your appearance and yourself. Also, any pain or skin symptoms due
to the surgery will likely disappear. You may need to wear a special
supportive bra for a few months to reshape your breasts.

Scars are permanent and are often more visible in the year after surgery. They
may fade after this. Your surgeon will try to place the incisions so that your
scars are as hidden as possible.

## Alternative Names

Breast augmentation; Breast implants; Implants - breast; Mammaplasty

## Patient Instructions

    * Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Breast lift \(mastopexy\) - series - Incisions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19124t.jpg)Breast lift (mastopexy) - series
    * ![Breast reduction \(mammoplasty\) - series - Indications](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19146t.jpg)Breast reduction (mammoplasty) - Series
    * ![Breast augmentation - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19553t.jpg)Breast augmentation - series

## References

Calobrace MB. Breast augmentation. In: Peter RJ, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic
Surgery, Volume 5: Breast_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

McGrath MH, Pomerantz JH. Plastic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
68.

## Review Date 1/30/2019

Updated by: David A. Lickstein, MD, FACS, specializing in cosmetic and
reconstructive plastic surgery, Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

