Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002986.htm    
                                Description: Chin augmentation is surgery to reshape or enhance the size of the chin. It may be done either by inserting an implant or by moving or reshaping bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chin augmentation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002986.htm

# Chin augmentation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chin augmentation is surgery to reshape or enhance the size of the chin. It
may be done either by inserting an implant or by moving or reshaping bones.

## Description

Surgery may be performed in the surgeon's office, a hospital, or an outpatient
clinic.

You may have x-rays taken of your face and chin. The surgeon will use these
x-rays to find out what part of the chin to operate on.

When you need only an implant to round out the chin:

    * You may be under general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free). Or, you may get medicine to numb the area, along with a medicine that will make you relaxed and sleepy.
    * A cut is made, either inside the mouth or outside under the chin. A pocket is created in front of the chin bone and under the muscles. The implant is placed inside.
    * The surgeon may use real bone or fat tissue, or an implant made out of silicone, Teflon, Dacron, or newer biological inserts.
    * The implant is often attached to the bone with stitches or screws.
    * Sutures are used to close the surgical cut. When the cut is inside the mouth, the scar can barely be seen. 

The surgeon may also need to move some bones:

    * You will likely be under general anesthesia.
    * The surgeon will make a cut inside your mouth along the lower gum. This gives the surgeon access to the chin bone.
    * The surgeon uses a bone saw or chisel to make a second cut through the jaw bone. The jaw bone is moved and wired or screwed in place with a metal plate.
    * The cut is closed with stitches and a bandage is applied. Because the surgery is performed inside your mouth, you will not see any scars.
    * The procedure takes between 1 and 3 hours. 

Chin augmentation is commonly done at the same time as a nose job
(rhinoplasty) or facial liposuction (when fat is removed from under the chin
and neck).

Surgery to correct bite problems (orthognathic surgery) can be done at the
same time as chin surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Chin augmentation is mostly done to balance the appearance of the face by
making the chin longer or bigger compared to the nose. The best candidates for
chin augmentation are people with weak or receding chins (microgenia), but who
have a normal bite.

Talk with a plastic surgeon if you are considering chin augmentation. Keep in
mind that the desired result is improvement, not perfection.

## Risks

The most common complications of chin augmentation are:

    * Bruising
    * Movement of the implant
    * Swelling 

Other possible complications include:

    * Damage to the teeth
    * Loss of feeling 

Rare side effects include:

    * Blood clots
    * Infection, sometimes the implant will have to be removed
    * Pain that does not go away
    * Numbness or other changes in feeling to the skin 

Although most people are happy with the outcome, poor cosmetic results that
may need more surgery include:

    * Wounds that do not heal well
    * Scarring
    * Unevenness of the face
    * Fluid that collects under the skin
    * Irregular skin shape (contour)
    * Movement of the implant 
    * Incorrect implant size

Smoking can delay healing.

## After the Procedure

You will feel some discomfort and soreness. Ask your doctor what kind of pain
medicine you should use.

You may feel some numbness in your chin for up to 3 months, and a stretching
sensation around your chin for 1 week. Most of the swelling will be gone by 6
weeks, depending on the type of procedure you had.

You might have to stick to a liquid or soft diet for at least a day or two.

You will probably have the outside bandage removed within a week of surgery.
You may be asked to wear a brace while you are sleeping for 4 to 6 weeks.

You can resume light activity the day of surgery. You should be able to return
to work and your usual activities within 7 to 10 days. Your health care
provider will give you specific instructions.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cut was made under the chin, the scar should not be noticeable.

Most implants last for a lifetime. Sometimes, implants made from bone or fat
tissue that was taken from your body will be reabsorbed.

Because you may have some swelling for months, you might not see the final
appearance of your chin and jaw for 3 to 4 months.

## Alternative Names

Augmentation mentoplasty; Genioplasty

## Images

    * ![Chin augmentation - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7050t.jpg)Chin augmentation - series

## References

Ferretti C, Reyneke JP. Genioplasty. _Atlas Oral Maxillofac Surg Clin North
Am_. 2016;24(1):79-85. PMID: 26847515 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26847515.

Sykes JM, Frodel JL. Mentoplasty. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 30.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery,
The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaw Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JawInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Jaw
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

