Link: https://medlineplus.gov/allofus.html    
                                Description: Information from MedlinePlus on medical tests, genetics and family history, and health and wellness issues for NIH All of Us research program participants    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Information for _All of Us_ Research Program Participants

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/allofus.html

#  Health Information for _All of Us_ Research Program Participants

On this page

  * Summary
  * Measuring Your Body
  * Health and Wellness Issues
  * Staying Healthy

  * Laboratory and Medical Tests
  * You and Your Doctor
  * Genetics and Family History
  * Participating in a Research Study

Find trusted, understandable information from MedlinePlus on health topics
related to the _All of Us_ Research Program. _All of Us_ is an NIH effort to
gather health information from one million or more people living in the United
States to accelerate medical research and improve health.

## ![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-01.jpg) Measuring
Your Body

  * Vital Signs English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Pulse (Heart Rate) English | Spanish
  * Blood Pressure English | Spanish
  * Body Weight English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Body Mass Index (BMI) English | Spanish

## ![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-02.jpg) Health and
Wellness Issues

  * Mental Health English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Sexual Health English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Dental Health English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Environmental Health English | Spanish
  * Disabilities English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Pregnancy English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Chronic Pain English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Quitting Smoking English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Drug Abuse English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Health Disparities English | Spanish

## ![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-03.jpg) Staying
Healthy

  * Healthy Living English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Healthy Aging English | Spanish
  * Nutrition English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Benefits of Exercise English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Exercise and Physical Fitness English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Medicines English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Healthy Sleep English | Spanish | Multiple Languages

## ![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-04.jpg) Laboratory
and Medical Tests

  * Medical Tests English | Spanish
  * What is a Laboratory Test? English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * How to Understand Your Lab Results English | Spanish
  * Urine Test (Urinalysis) English | Spanish
  * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know English | Spanish
  * Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) English | Spanish
  * Complete Blood Count (CBC) English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Metabolic Panel English | Spanish
  * Heavy Metal Blood Test English | Spanish
  * Mental Health Screening English | Spanish

## ![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-05.jpg) You and Your
Doctor

  * Talking With Your Doctor English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Health Checkup English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Health Screening English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Choosing a Doctor or Healthcare Service English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
  * Personal Health Records English | Spanish | Multiple Languages

## ![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-06.jpg) Genetics and
Family History

    * Family History English | Spanish
    * Genetic Testing English | Spanish
    * Pharmacogenetic Tests English | Spanish
    * Genes and Gene Therapy English | Spanish
    * Genetic Counseling English | Spanish

## ![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-07.jpg) Participating
in a Research Study

    * Clinical Trials English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
    * Patient Safety English | Spanish | Multiple Languages
    * Understanding Medical Research English | Spanish | Multiple Languages

## What is MedlinePlus?

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-09.jpg) **What is
MedlinePlus?**  
  
MedlinePlus is an online health information resource from the National Library
of Medicine (NLM) for patients and their families and friends.  
  
Learn more about MedlinePlus

## What is the _All of Us_ Research Program?

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-10.jpg)  
  

**What is the _All of Us_ Research Program?**  
  
The _All of Us_ Research Program is a large research program run by the
National Institutes of Health (NIH). The goal is to help researchers
understand more about why people get sick or stay healthy.  
  
Learn more about the _All of Us_ Research Program

## Other Helpful Resources from NLM

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/allofus-icon-image-08.jpg)

**Other Helpful Resources from NLM**

  

Genetics Home Reference  
Information about genetics, including health conditions, genetic testing, and
genomic research.  
  
HealthReach  
Multilingual, multicultural health information and patient education materials
about health conditions and wellness topcis.  
  
Tox Town  
Information about the connections between chemicals, the environment, and the
public's health.  
  
ClinicalTrials.gov  
A database of privately and publicly funded clinical studies conducted around
the world.  
  
PubMed  
Citations and abstracts for medical journal articles, plus some links to full
text articles via publishers and PubMed Central.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Quality Guidelines
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 September 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

