Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002985.htm    
                                Description: Liposuction is the removal of excess body fat by suction using special surgical equipment. A plastic surgeon typically does the surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Liposuction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002985.htm

# Liposuction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Liposuction is the removal of excess body fat by suction using special
surgical equipment. A plastic surgeon typically does the surgery.

## Description

Liposuction is a type of cosmetic surgery. It removes unwanted excess fat to
improve body appearance and to smooth irregular body shapes. The procedure is
sometimes called body contouring.

Liposuction may be useful for contouring under the chin, neck, cheeks, upper
arms, breasts, abdomen, buttocks, hips, thighs, knees, calves, and ankle
areas.

Liposuction is a surgical procedure with risks, and it may involve a painful
recovery. Liposuction can have serious or rare fatal complications. So, you
should carefully think about your decision to have this surgery.

TYPES OF LIPOSUCTION PROCEDURES

**Tumescent liposuction (fluid injection)** is the most common type of
liposuction. It involves injecting a large amount of medicated solution into
the areas before the fat is removed. Sometimes, the solution may be up to
three times the amount of fat to be removed). The fluid is a mixture of local
anesthetic (lidocaine), a drug that contracts the blood vessels (epinephrine),
and an intravenous (IV) salt solution. Lidocaine helps numb the area during
and after surgery. It may be the only anesthesia needed for the procedure.
Epinephrine in the solution helps reduce loss of blood, bruising, and
swelling. The IV solution helps remove the fat more easily. It is suctioned
out along with the fat. This type of liposuction generally takes longer than
other types.

 **Super-wet technique** is similar to tumescent liposuction. The difference
is that not as much fluid is used during the surgery. The amount of fluid
injected is equal to the amount of fat to be removed. This technique takes
less time. But it often requires sedation (medicine that makes you drowsy) or
general anesthesia (medicine that allows you to be asleep and pain-free).

 **Ultrasound-assisted liposuction (UAL)** uses ultrasonic vibrations to turn
fat cells into liquid. Afterward, the cells can be vacuumed out. UAL can be
done in two ways, external (above the surface of the skin with a special
emitter) or internal (below the surface of the skin with a small, heated
cannula). This technique may help remove fat from dense, fiber-filled
(fibrous) areas of the body such as the upper back or enlarged male breast
tissue. UAL is often used together with the tumescent technique, in follow-up
(secondary) procedures, or for greater precision. In general, this procedure
takes longer than the super-wet technique.

 **Laser-assisted liposuction (LAL)** uses laser energy to liquefy fat cells.
After the cells are liquefied, they can be vacuumed out or allowed to drain
out through small tubes. Because the tube (cannula) used during LAL is smaller
than the ones used in traditional liposuction, surgeons prefer using LAL for
confined areas. These areas include the chin, jowls, and face. A possible
advantage of LAL over other liposuction methods is that energy from the laser
stimulates collagen production. This may help prevent skin sag after
liposuction. Collagen is the fiber-like protein that helps maintain skin
structure.

HOW THE PROCEDURE IS DONE

    * A liposuction machine and special instruments called cannulas are used for this surgery.
    * The surgical team prepares the areas of your body that will be treated.
    * You will receive either local or general anesthesia.
    * Through a small skin incision, the tumescent fluid is injected under your skin in the areas that will be worked on.
    * After the medicine in the solution takes effect, dislodged fat is vacuumed away through the suction tube. A vacuum pump or a large syringe provides the suction action.
    * Several skin punctures may be needed to treat large areas. The surgeon may approach the areas to be treated from different directions to get the best contour.
    * After the fat is removed, small drainage tubes may be inserted into the defatted areas to remove blood and fluid that collects during the first few days after surgery.
    * If you lose a lot of fluid or blood during the surgery, you may need fluid replacement (intravenously). In very rare, cases, a blood transfusion is needed.
    * A compression garment will be placed on you. Wear it as instructed by your surgeon. 

##  Why the Procedure is Performed

The following are some of the uses for liposuction:

    * Cosmetic reasons, including "love handles," fat bulges, or an abnormal chin line.
    * To improve sexual function by reducing abnormal fat deposits on the inner thighs, thus allowing easier access to the vagina.
    * Body shaping for people who are bothered by fatty bulges or irregularities that cannot be removed by diet and/or exercise. 

Liposuction is not used:

    * As a substitute for exercise and diet, or as a cure for general obesity. But it may be used to remove fat from isolated areas at different points in time.
    * As a treatment for cellulite (the uneven, dimpled appearance of skin over hips, thighs, and buttocks) or excess skin.
    * In certain areas of the body, such as the fat on the sides of the breasts, because the breast is a common site for cancer. 

Many alternatives to liposuction exist, including a tummy tuck
(abdominoplasty), removal of fatty tumors (lipomas), breast reduction
(reduction mammaplasty), or a combination of plastic surgery approaches. Your
doctor can discuss these with you.

## Risks

Certain medical conditions should be checked and be under control before
liposuction, including:

    * History of heart problems (heart attack)
    * High blood pressure
    * Diabetes
    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Lung problems (shortness of breath, air pockets in bloodstream)
    * Allergies (antibiotics, asthma, surgical prep)
    * Smoking, alcohol, or drug use 

Risks associated with liposuction include:

    * Shock (usually when not enough fluid is replaced during the surgery)
    * Fluid overload (usually from the procedure)
    * Infections (strep, staph)
    * Bleeding, blood clot
    * Tiny globules of fat in the bloodstream that block blood flow to tissue (fat embolism)
    * Nerve, skin, tissue, or organ damage or burns from the heat or instruments used in liposuction
    * Uneven fat removal (asymmetry)
    * Dents in your skin or contouring problems
    * Drug reactions or overdose from the lidocaine used in the procedure
    * Scarring or irregular, asymmetric, or even "baggy," skin, especially in older people

## Before the Procedure

Before your surgery, you will have a patient consultation. This will include a
history, physical exam, and a psychological evaluation. You may need to bring
someone (such as your spouse) with you during the visit to help you remember
what your doctor discusses with you.

Feel free to ask questions. Be sure you understand the answers to your
questions. You must understand fully the pre-operative preparations, the
liposuction procedure, and the post-operative care. Understand that
liposuction may enhance your appearance and self-confidence, but it will
probably not give you your ideal body.

Before the day of surgery, you may have blood drawn and be asked to provide a
urine sample. This allows the health care provider to rule out potential
complications. If you are not hospitalized, you will need a ride home after
the surgery.

## After the Procedure

Liposuction may or may not require a hospital stay, depending on the location
and extent of surgery. Liposuction can be done in an office-based facility, in
a surgery center on an outpatient basis, or in a hospital.

After the surgery, bandages and a compression garment are applied to keep
pressure on the area and stop any bleeding, as well as to help maintain shape.
Bandages are kept in place for at least 2 weeks. You will likely need the
compression garment for several weeks. Follow your surgeon's instructions on
how long it needs to be worn.

You will likely have swelling, bruising, numbness, and pain, but it can be
managed with medicines. The stitches will be removed in 5 to 10 days.
Antibiotics may be prescribed to prevent infection.

You may feel sensations such as numbness or tingling, as well as pain, for
weeks after the surgery. Walk as soon as possible after surgery to help
prevent blood clots from forming in your legs. Avoid more strenuous exercise
for about a month after the surgery.

You will start to feel better after about 1 or 2 weeks. You may return to work
within a few days of the surgery. Bruising and swelling usually go away within
3 weeks, but you may still have some swelling several months later.

Your surgeon may call you from time to time to monitor your healing. A follow-
up visit with the surgeon will be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people are satisfied with the results of the surgery.

Your new body shape will begin to emerge in the first couple of weeks.
Improvement will be more visible 4 to 6 weeks after surgery. By exercising
regularly and eating healthy foods, you can help maintain your new shape.

## Alternative Names

Fat removal - suctioning; Body contouring

## Images

    * ![Fat layer in skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19490t.jpg)Fat layer in skin
    * ![Liposuction - series - Indications](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19113t.jpg)Liposuction - series

## References

McGrath MH, Pomerantz JH. Plastic surgery. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
68.

Stephan PJ, Dauwe P, Kenkel J. Liposuction: a comprehensive review of
techniques and safety. In: Peter RJ, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery, Volume
2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.1.

## Review Date 4/20/2019

Updated by: David A. Lickstein, MD, FACS, specializing in cosmetic and
reconstructive plastic surgery, Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plastic and Cosmetic
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlasticSurgery2_thumb.jpg)Plastic and
Cosmetic Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

