Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000711.htm    
                                Description: Doing a skin self-exam involves checking your skin for any unusual growths or skin changes. A skin self-exam helps find many skin problems early. Finding skin cancer early may give you a better chance    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin self-exam

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000711.htm

# Skin self-exam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Doing a skin self-exam involves checking your skin for any unusual growths or
skin changes. A skin self-exam helps find many skin problems early. Finding
skin cancer early may give you a better chance for being cured.

## How to do a Skin Self-exam

Checking your skin regularly can help you notice any unusual changes. Follow
your health care provider's recommendations on how often to check your skin.

These tips may be helpful:

    * The easiest time to do the exam may be after you bathe or shower.
    * If you are a woman and do regular breast self-exams, this is also a good time to check your skin.
    * If possible, use a full-length mirror in a room with bright lights so you can see your entire body. 

Look for these things when doing a skin self-exam:

New skin markings:

    * Bumps
    * Moles
    * Blemishes
    * Changes in color 

Moles that have changed in:

    * Size
    * Texture
    * Color
    * Shape 

Also look for "ugly duckling" moles. These are moles that look and feel
different from other nearby moles.

Moles with:

    * Uneven edges
    * Differences in color or asymmetric colors
    * Lack of even sides (look different from one side to the other) 

Also look for:

    * Moles or sores that continue to bleed or will not heal
    * Any mole or growth that looks very different from other skin growths around them 

To do a skin self-exam:

    * Look closely at your entire body, both front and back, in the mirror.
    * Check under your arms and on both sides of each arm. Be sure to look at the backs of your upper arms, which can be hard to see.
    * Bend your arms at the elbow, and look at both sides of your forearm.
    * Look at the tops and palms of your hands.
    * Look at the front and back of both legs.
    * Look at your buttocks and between your buttocks.
    * Examine your genital area.
    * Look at your face, neck, back of your neck, and scalp. Use both a hand mirror and full-length mirror, along with a comb, to see areas of your scalp.
    * Look at your feet, including the soles and the spaces between your toes.
    * Have a person you trust help examine hard-to-see areas. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your health care provider right away if:

    * You have any new or unusual sores or spots on your skin
    * A mole or skin sore changes in shape, size, color, or texture
    * Spot an ugly duckling mole
    * You have a sore that does not heal 

## Alternative Names

Skin cancer - self-exam; Melanoma - self-exam; Basal cell cancer - self-exam;
Squamous cell - self-exam; Skin mole - self-exam

## References

American Academy of Dermatology website. Detect skin cancer. www.aad.org/skin-
cancer-find-check. Accessed December 23, 2019.

National Cancer Institute website. Skin cancer screening (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/skin/hp/skin-screening-pdq. Updated
November 30, 2017. Accessed January 31, 2018.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Grossman
DC, et al. Screening for skin cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;316(4):429-435. PMID: 27458948
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27458948.

## Review Date 11/3/2017

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 12/23/19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Moles
    * Skin Cancer
    * Skin Conditions

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

