Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000827.htm    
                                Description: Actinic keratosis is a small, rough, raised area on your skin. Often this area has been exposed to the sun over a long period of time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Actinic keratosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000827.htm

# Actinic keratosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Actinic keratosis is a small, rough, raised area on your skin. Often this area
has been exposed to the sun over a long period of time.

Some actinic keratoses may develop into a type of skin cancer.

## Causes

Actinic keratosis is caused by exposure to sunlight.

You are more likely to develop it if you:

    * Have fair skin, blue or green eyes, or blond or red hair
    * Had a kidney or other organ transplant
    * Take medicines that suppress the immune system
    * Spend a lot of time each day in the sun (for example, if you work outdoors)
    * Had many severe sunburns early in life
    * Are older 

## Symptoms

Actinic keratosis is usually found on the face, scalp, back of the hands,
chest, or places that are often in the sun.

    * The skin changes begin as flat and scaly areas. They often have a white or yellow crusty scale on top.
    * The growths may be gray, pink, red, or the same color as your skin. Later they may become hard and wart-like or gritty and rough.
    * The affected areas may be easier to feel than see.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your skin to diagnose this condition. A
skin biopsy may be done to see if it is cancer.

## Treatment

Some actinic keratoses become squamous cell skin cancer. Have your provider
look at all skin growths as soon as you find them. Your provider will tell you
how to treat them.

Growths may be removed by:

    * Burning (electrical cautery)
    * Scraping away the lesion and using electricity to kill any remaining cells (called curettage and electrodesiccation)
    * Cutting the tumor out and using stitches to place the skin back together (called excision)
    * Freezing (cryotherapy, which freezes and kills the cells) 

If you have many of these skin growths, your doctor may recommend:

    * A special light treatment called photodynamic therapy
    * Chemical peels
    * Skin creams, such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and imiquimod 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A small number of these skin growths turn into squamous cell carcinoma.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you see or feel a rough or scaly spot on your skin, or
if you notice any other skin changes.

## Prevention

The best way to lower your risk for actinic keratosis and skin cancer is to
learn how to protect your skin from sun and ultraviolet (UV) light.

Things you can do to lower your exposure to sunlight include:

    * Wear clothing such as hats, long-sleeved shirts, long skirts, or pants.
    * Try to avoid being in the sun during midday, when ultraviolet light is most intense.
    * Use high-quality sunscreens, preferably with a sun protection factor (SPF) rating of at least 30. Pick a broad spectrum sunscreen that blocks both UVA and UVB light.
    * Apply sunscreen before going out into the sun, and reapply often -- at least every 2 hours while in the sun.
    * Use sunscreen year-round, including in the winter.
    * Avoid sun lamps, tanning beds, and tanning salons. 

Other things to know about sun exposure:

    * Sun exposure is stronger in or near surfaces that reflect light, such as water, sand, concrete, and areas painted white.
    * Sunlight is more intense at the beginning of the summer.
    * Skin burns faster at higher altitudes. 

## Alternative Names

Solar keratosis; Sun-induced skin changes - keratosis; Keratosis - actinic
(solar); Skin lesion - actinic keratosisÂ

## Images

    * ![Actinic keratosis on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1809t.jpg)Actinic keratosis on the arm
    * ![Actinic keratosis - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2358t.jpg)Actinic keratosis - close-up
    * ![Actinic keratosis on the forearms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2359t.jpg)Actinic keratosis on the forearms
    * ![Actinic keratosis on the scalp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2360t.jpg)Actinic keratosis on the scalp
    * ![Actinic keratosis - ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3198t.jpg)Actinic keratosis - ear

## References

Habif TP. Premalignant and malignant nonmelanoma skin tumors. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

Soyer HP, Rigel DS, McMeniman E. Actinic keratosis, basal cell carcinoma, and
squamous cell carcinoma. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 108.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinCancer_thumb.jpg)Skin Cancer
_Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Sun Exposure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SunExposure_thumb.jpg)Sun
Exposure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

