Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001452.htm    
                                Description: Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is a group of defects passed down through families. The disorder involves the skin, nervous system, eyes, endocrine glands, urinary and reproductive systems, and bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001452.htm

# Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is a group of defects passed down through
families. The disorder involves the skin, nervous system, eyes, endocrine
glands, urinary and reproductive systems, and bones.

It causes an unusual facial appearance and a higher risk for skin cancers and
noncancerous tumors.

## Causes

Nevoid basal cell carcinoma nevus syndrome is a rare genetic condition. The
gene linked to the syndrome is known as PTCH ("patched").

The gene is passed down through families as an autosomal dominant trait. This
means youÂ develop the syndrome if either parent passes the gene to you.

## Symptoms

Main symptoms of this disorder are:

    * A type of skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma that develops around the time of puberty
    * A noncancerous tumor of the jaw, called kerotocystic odontogenic tumor that also develops during puberty

Other symptoms include:

    * Broad nose
    * Cleft palate
    * Heavy, protruding brow
    * Jaw that sticks out (in some cases)
    * Wide-set eyes 
    * Pitting on palms and soles

The condition may affect the nervous system and lead to:

    * Blindness
    * Deafness
    * Intellectual disability
    * Seizures
    * Tumors of the brain

The condition also leads to bone defects, including:

    * Curvature of the back (scoliosis)
    * Severe curvature of the back (kyphosis) 
    * Abnormal ribs

## Exams and Tests

There may be a family history of this disorder and a past history of basal
cell skin cancers.

Tests may reveal:

    * Brain tumors
    * Cysts in the jaw, which can lead to abnormal tooth development or jaw fractures
    * Defects in the colored part (iris) or lens of the eye
    * Head swelling due to fluid on the brain (hydrocephalus)
    * Rib abnormalities

Tests that may be done include:

    * Echocardiogram of the heart
    * Genetic testing (in some patients)
    * MRI of the brain
    * Skin biopsy of tumors
    * X-rays of the bones, teeth, and skull
    * Ultrasound to check for ovarian tumors

## Treatment

It is important to get examined by a skin doctor (dermatologist) often, so
that skin cancers may be treated while they are still small.

People with this disorder may also be seen and treated by other specialists,
depending on which part of the body is affected. For example, a cancer
specialist (oncologist) may treat tumors in the body, and an orthopedic
surgeon may help treat bone problems.

## Support Groups

These groups can provide more information on nevoid basal cell carcinoma
syndrome:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/nevoid-basal-cell-carcinoma-syndrome
    * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/gorlin-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Frequent follow-up with a variety of specialist doctors is important for
having a good outcome.

## Possible Complications

People with this condition may develop:

    * Blindness
    * Brain tumor
    * Deafness
    * Fractures
    * Ovarian tumors
    * Cardiac fibromas
    * Skin damage and severe scarring due to skin cancers 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if:

    * You or any family members have nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome, especially if you are planning to have a child.
    * You have a child who has symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Couples with a family history of this syndrome might consider genetic
counseling before becoming pregnant.

Staying out of the sun and using sunscreen can help prevent new basal cell
skin cancers.

Avoid radiation such as x-rays. People with this condition are very sensitive
to radiation. Exposure to radiation can lead to skin cancers.

## Alternative Names

NBCC syndrome; Gorlin-Goltz syndrome; Basal cell nevus syndrome; BCNS; Basal
cell cancer - nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome

## Images

    * ![Basal cell nevus syndrome - close-up of palm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1945t.jpg)Basal cell nevus syndrome - close-up of palm
    * ![Basal cell nevus syndrome - plantar pits](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2372t.jpg)Basal cell nevus syndrome - plantar pits
    * ![Basal cell nevus syndrome - face and hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2373t.jpg)Basal cell nevus syndrome - face and hand
    * ![Basal cell nevus syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3190t.jpg)Basal cell nevus syndrome
    * ![Basal cell nevus syndrome - face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3191t.jpg)Basal cell nevus syndrome - face

## References

Evans DG, Farndon PA. Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. _GeneReviews_.
2015:10. PMID: 20301330. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301330. Published June
20, 2002. Updated March 29, 2018. Accessed June 6, 2018.

Skelsey MK, Peck GL. Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. In: Lebwohl MG,
Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease:
Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 170.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![Skin Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinCancer_thumb.jpg)Skin Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

