Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007634.htm    
                                Description: Mohs micrographic surgery is a way to treat and cure certain skin cancers. Surgeons trained in the Mohs procedure can do this surgery. It allows skin cancer to be removed with less damage to the healthy    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mohs micrographic surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007634.htm

# Mohs micrographic surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mohs micrographic surgery is a way to treat and cure certain skin cancers.
Surgeons trained in the Mohs procedure can do this surgery. It allows skin
cancer to be removed with less damage to the healthy skin around it.

## Description

Mohs surgery usually takes place in the doctor's office. The surgery is
started early in the morning and is done in one day. Sometimes if the tumor is
big or you need reconstruction, it may take two visits.

During the procedure, the surgeon removes the cancer in layers until all the
cancer has been removed. The surgeon will:

    * Numb your skin where cancer is so you do not feel any pain. You stay awake for the procedure.
    * Remove the visible tumor along with a thin layer of tissue next to the tumor.
    * Look at the tissue under a microscope.
    * Check for cancer. If there is still cancer in that layer, the doctor will take out another layer and look at that under the microscope.
    * Keep repeating this procedure until there is no cancer found in a layer. Each round takes about 1 hour. The surgery takes 20 to 30 minutes and looking at the layer under the microscope takes 30 minutes.
    * Do about 2 to 3 rounds to get all of the cancer. Deep tumors may need more layers.
    * Stop any bleeding by applying a pressure dressing, using a small probe to heat the skin (electrocautery), or giving you a stitch. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Mohs surgery can be used for most skin cancers, such as basal cell or squamous
cell skin cancers. For many skin cancers, other simpler procedures can be
used.

Mohs surgery may be preferred when the skin cancer is on an area where:

    * It is important to remove as little tissue as possible, such as the eyelids, nose, ears, lips, or hands
    * Your doctor needs to be certain the entire tumor is removed before stitching you up
    * There is a scar or prior radiation treatment was used
    * There is a higher chance the tumor will come back, such as on the ears, lips, nose, eyelids, or temples

Mohs surgery may also be preferred when:

    * The skin cancer was already treated, and it was not completely removed, or it came back
    * The skin cancer is large, or the edges of the skin cancer are not clear
    * Your immune system is not working well due to cancer, cancer treatments, or medicines you are taking
    * The tumor is deeper

## Risks

Mohs surgery is generally safe. With Mohs surgery, you do not need to be put
asleep (general anesthesia) as you would with other surgeries.

While rare, these are some risks for this surgery:

    * Infection.
    * Nerve damage that causes numbness or a burning sensation. This usually goes away.
    * Larger scars that are raised and red, called keloids.
    * Bleeding.

## Before the Procedure

Your doctor will explain what you should do to prepare for your surgery. You
may be asked to:

    * Stop taking certain medicines, such as aspirin or other blood thinners. DO NOT stop taking any prescription medicines unless your doctor tells you to stop.
    * Stop smoking.
    * Arrange to have someone take you home after your surgery.

## After the Procedure

Taking proper care of your wound after surgery will help your skin look its
best. Your doctor will talk with you about your options:

    * Let a small wound heal itself. Most small wounds heal well on their own.
    * Use stitches to close the wound.
    * Use skin grafts. The doctor covers the wound using skin from another part of your body.
    * Use skin flaps. The doctor covers the wound with the skin next to your wound. Skin near your wound matches in color and texture. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Mohs surgery has a 99% cure rate in treating skin cancer.

With this surgery, the smallest amount of tissue possible is removed. You will
have a smaller scar than you might have with other treatment options.

## Alternative Names

Skin cancer - Mohs surgery; Basal cell skin cancer - Mohs surgery; Squamous
cell skin cancer - Mohs surgery

## References

Ad Hoc Task Force, Connolly SM, Baker DR, et al. AAD/ACMS/ASDSA/ASMS 2012
appropriate use criteria for Mohs micrographic surgery: a report of the
American Academy of Dermatology, American College of Mohs Surgery, American
Society for Dermatologic Surgery Association, and the American Society for
Mohs Surgery. _J Am Acad Dermatol_. 2012;67(4):531-550. PMID: 22959232
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22959232.

American College of Mohs Surgery website. The Mohs step-by-step process.
www.skincancermohssurgery.org/about-mohs-surgery/the-mohs-step-by-step-
process. Updated March 2, 2017. Accessed December 7, 2018.

Lam C, Vidimos AT. Mohs micrographic surgery. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018:chap 150.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinCancer_thumb.jpg)Skin Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

