Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000824.htm    
                                Description: Basal cell cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. Most skin cancers are basal cell cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Basal cell skin cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000824.htm

# Basal cell skin cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Basal cell cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. Most
skin cancers are basal cell cancer.

Other common types of skin cancer are:

    * Squamous cell cancer
    * Melanoma

## Causes

The top layer of the skin is called the epidermis. The bottom layer of the
epidermis is the basal cell layer. With basal cancer, cells in this layer are
the ones that become cancerous. Most basal cell cancers occur on skin that is
regularly exposed to sunlight or other ultraviolet radiation.

![Basal cell cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9099.jpg)

This type of skin cancer is most common in people over age 50. But it can also
occur in younger people who have had extensive sun exposure. Basal cell cancer
is almost always slow-growing. It rarely spreads to other parts of the body.

You are more likely to develop basal cell cancer if you have:

    * Light-colored or freckled skin
    * Blue, green, or grey eyes
    * Blond or red hair
    * Overexposure to x-rays or other forms of radiation
    * Many moles
    * Close relatives who have or had skin cancer
    * Many severe sunburns early in life
    * Long-term daily sun exposure (such as the sun exposure received by people who work outside) 

Other risk factors include:

    * Smoking
    * Weakened immune system, such as being on medicines that suppress the immune system after an organ transplant
    * Inherited skin diseases, such as nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome
    * Having had photodynamic therapy

## Symptoms

Basal cell cancer usually grows slowly and is often painless. It may not look
that different from your normal skin. You may have a skin bump or growth that
is:

    * Pearly or waxy
    * White or light pink
    * Flesh-colored or brown
    * A red, scaly patch of skin 

In some cases, the skin is just slightly raised, or even flat.

You may have:

    * A skin sore that bleeds easily
    * A sore that does not heal
    * Oozing or crusting spots in a sore
    * A scar-like sore without having injured the area
    * Irregular blood vessels in or around the spot
    * A sore with a depressed (sunken) area in the middle 
![Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma -
nose](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2368.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Your doctor will check your skin and look at the size, shape, color, and
texture of any suspicious areas.

If your doctor thinks you might have skin cancer, a piece of skin will be
removed. This is called a skin biopsy. The sample is sent to a lab for
examination under a microscope.

A skin biopsy must be done to confirm basal cell cancer or other skin cancers.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the size, depth, and location of the skin cancer and your
overall health. Each treatment has its risks and benefits. You and your doctor
can discuss the treatment that's right for you.

Treatment may involve any of the following:

    * Excision: Cutting out the skin cancer and stitching the skin together
    * Curettage and electrodessication: Scraping away cancer cells and using electricity to kill any that remain; used to treat cancers that are not large or deep; often curettage is used alone without electrodessication
    * Cryosurgery: Freezing the cancer cells, which kills them; used to treat cancers that are not large or deep
    * Medication: Skin creams that have medicine; used to treat cancers that are not large or deep
    * Mohs surgery: Removing a layer of skin and looking at it immediately under a microscope, then removing layers of skin until there are no signs of the cancer; usually used for skin cancers on the nose, ears, and other areas of the face
    * Photodynamic therapy: Using a light-activated chemical to treat cancers that are not large or deep
    * Radiation therapy: May be used if a basal cell cancer cannot be treated with surgery
    * Chemotherapy: May be used in the rare instances of basal cell cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or that cannot be treated with surgery
    * Biologic therapies (immunotherapies): Medicines that target and kill basal cell skin cancer and are used when standard treatments do not work 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of these cancers are cured when treated early. Some basal cell cancers
return in the same location. Smaller ones are less likely to come back.

Basal cell skin cancer almost never spreads beyond the original location. Left
untreated, however, it may spread into surrounding areas and nearby tissues
and bone.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you have a sore or
spot on your skin that changes in:

    * Appearance
    * Color
    * Size
    * Texture

Also call your provider if a spot becomes painful or swollen, or if it starts
to bleed or itch.

## Prevention

The American Cancer Society recommends that a provider examine your skin every
year if you are older than 40 and every 3 years if you are 20 to 40 years old.
You should also examine your own skin once a month. Use a hand mirror for
hard-to-see places. Call your doctor if you notice anything unusual.

The best way to prevent skin cancer is to reduce your exposure to sunlight.
Always use sunscreen:

    * Apply sunscreen with sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 30, even when you are going outdoors for a short time.
    * Apply a large amount of sunscreen on all exposed areas, including ears and feet.
    * Look for sunscreen that blocks both UVA and UVB light.
    * Use a water-resistant sunscreen.
    * Apply sunscreen at least 30 minutes before going out. Follow package instructions about how often to reapply. Be sure to reapply after swimming or sweating.
    * Use sunscreen in winter and on cloudy days, too.Â 

Other measures to help you avoid too much sun exposure:

    * Ultraviolet light is most intense between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Try to avoid the sun during these hours.Â 
    * Protect the skin by wearing wide-brim hats, long-sleeve shirts, long skirts, or pants. You can also buy sun-protective clothing.
    * Avoid surfaces that reflect light more, such as water, sand, concrete, and areas that are painted white.
    * The higher the altitude, the faster your skin burns.
    * Do not use sun lamps and tanning beds (salons). Spending 15 to 20 minutes at a tanning salon is as dangerous as a day spent in the sun. 

## Alternative Names

Basal cell carcinoma; Rodent ulcer; Skin cancer - basal cell; Cancer - skin -
basal cell; Nonmelanoma skin cancer; Basal cell NMSC; Basal cell epithelioma

## Images

    * ![Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - nose](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2368t.jpg)Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - nose
    * ![Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - pigmented](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2369t.jpg)Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - pigmented
    * ![Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - behind ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2370t.jpg)Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - behind ear
    * ![Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - spreading](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2371t.jpg)Skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - spreading
    * ![Multiple Basal cell cancer due to x-ray therapy for acne](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3183t.jpg)Multiple basal cell cancer due to x-ray therapy for acne
    * ![Basal Cell Carcinoma - face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3187t.jpg)Basal Cell Carcinoma - face
    * ![Basal cell carcinoma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3189t.jpg)Basal cell carcinoma - close-up
    * ![Basal cell cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9099t.jpg)Basal cell cancer

## References

Habif TP. Premalignant and malignant nonmelanoma skin tumors. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

National Cancer Institute website. Skin cancer treatment (PDQÂ®) - Health
Professional Version. www.cancer.gov/types/skin/hp/skin-treatment-
pdq#section/_222. Updated December 19, 2019. Accessed February 24, 2020.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN Clinical Practice
Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines): Basal cell skin cancer. Version
1.2020. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/nmsc.pdf. Updated October
24, 2020. Accessed February 24, 2020.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, et al.
Screening for skin cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _JAMA_. 2016;316(4):429-435. PMID 27458948
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27458948.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinCancer_thumb.jpg)Skin Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

