Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000150.htm    
                                Description: Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome (KTS) is a rare condition that is typically present at birth. The syndrome often involves port wine stains, excess growth of bones and soft tissue, and varicose veins.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000150.htm

# Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome (KTS) is a rare condition that is typically present
at birth. The syndrome often involves port wine stains, excess growth of bones
and soft tissue, and varicose veins.

## Causes

Most cases of KTS occur for no clear reason. However, a few cases are thought
to be passed down through families (inherited).

## Symptoms

Symptoms of KTS include:

    * Many port wine stains or other blood vessel problems, including dark spots on the skin
    * Varicose veins (may be seen in early infancy, but are more likely to be seen later in childhood or adolescence)
    * Unstable gait due to limb-length difference (involved limb is longer)
    * Bone, vein, or nerve pain 

Other possible symptoms:

    * Bleeding from the rectum
    * Blood in the urine 

## Exams and Tests

People with this condition may have excessive growth of bones and soft tissue.
This occurs most commonly in the legs, but it also may affect the arms, face,
head, or internal organs.

Various imaging techniques can be used to find out any change in body
structures due to this condition. These also help in deciding the plan of
treatment. These may include:

    * MRA
    * Endoscopic thermal ablation therapy
    * X-rays
    * CT scans or CT venography
    * MRI
    * Color duplex ultrasonography

Ultrasound during pregnancy may help in diagnosing the condition.

## Support Groups

The following organizations provide further information on KTS:

    * The Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome Support Group -- k-t.org
    * Vascular Birthmarks Foundation -- www.birthmark.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with KTS do well, although the condition may affect their
appearance. Some people have psychological problems from the condition.

There can sometimes be abnormal blood vessels in the abdomen, which may need
to be evaluated.

## Alternative Names

Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome; KTS; Angio-osteohypertrophy; Hemangiectasia
hypertrophicans; Nevus verucosus hypertrophicans; Capillary-lymphatico-venous
malformation (CLVM)

## References

Greene AK, Mulliken JB. Vascular anomalies. In: Rodriguez ED, Losee JE,
Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 3: Craniofacial, Head and Neck
Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 39.

Longman RE. Klippel-TrÃ©naunay-Weber syndrome. In: Copel JA, D'Alton ME,
Feltovich H, et al, eds. _Obstetric Imaging_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 131.

McCormick AA, Grundwaldt LJ. Vascular anomalies. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 10.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Arteriovenous
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArteriovenousMalformations_thumb.jpg)Arteriovenous
Malformations _Read more_

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks_thumb.jpg)Birthmarks
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

