

![](https://www.cdc.gov/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_subpage.svg)

![](/globalhivtb/images/left-arrow.png) ![](/globalhivtb/images/right-
arrow.png)

At 19, Magnificent survived the often deadly **multidrug-resistant TB** thanks
to the treatment he received in a CDC-supported health facility that
specializes in fighting drug resistance. He is now living a healthy life and
pursuing his dreams of becoming an engineer and looking after his family.
Thom Pierce 2018

# Magnificent's Journey

Magnificent is his mother's only son and his little sister's only sibling. At
24, he has been the man of the house since his father died ten years ago. If
you ask him about his dreams, he will tell you they are for his family. "I
want to take care of my mother,â he says, âI want my sister to finish
school.â When he was 19 years old and a college engineering student,
Magnificent contracted TB after visiting his uncle in the hospital. The
doctors gave him medicine, but he felt better shortly after and stopped taking
the pills. But then the cough returned. And after the cough, the loss of
appetite, the trouble breathing, and a terrifying weight loss. He went to the
local TB hospital where he met Khaya, a CDC-supported nurse--and one of the
countryâs champions in the fight against drug resistant TB. She told him he
had developed the much deadlier, multi-drug resistant TB, and would not be
returning home.

For months he remained in isolation, enduring a daily and toxic cocktail of
drugs and injections that had severe side effects. As TB is also the number
one killer of people living with HIV, he was tested for the virus and found to
be negative. Finally, after nine months, he was cured. The ordeal has changed
him. âI didn't know if I would live or die. If you could collect all the
tears I cried during that time, it would measure a gallon," he recalls. Today,
he is channeling his struggle into advocacy, traveling the country to educate
others about the threat of drug resistant TB. And he's dreaming again.

âI have my life back,â he says, âI can watch my little sister grow
up.â

Gallery

![](https://i.ibb.co/FJjV9F5/Hamburger-Menu-back-To-Gallery.png)

# Magnificent's Journey

![](https://i.ibb.co/BGMPd3c/APRQuote-Left.png)

I didn't know if I would live or die.  
I have my life back.

![](https://i.ibb.co/5BW0JBs/Facebook-Icon.png)
![](https://i.ibb.co/F8tjQpf/Twitter-Icon.png)
![](https://i.ibb.co/s5YFvs3/bars-png1.png)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

