Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001426.htm    
                                Description: Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) is a rare disorder that is present at birth. A child with this condition will have a port-wine stain birthmark (usually on the face) and may have nervous system problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sturge-Weber syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001426.htm

# Sturge-Weber syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) is a rare disorder that is present at birth. A
child with this condition will have a port-wine stain birthmark (usually on
the face) and may have nervous system problems.

## Causes

In many people, the cause of Sturge-Weber is due to a mutation of the GNAQ
gene. This gene affects small blood vessels called capillaries. Problems in
the capillaries cause the port-wine stains to form.

Sturge-Weber is not thought to be passed down (inherited) through families.  

## Symptoms

Symptoms of SWS include:

    * Port-wine stain (more common on the upper face and eye-lid than the rest of the body)
    * Seizures
    * Headache
    * Paralysis or weakness on one side
    * Learning disabilities
    * Glaucoma (very high fluid pressure in the eye)
    * Low thyroid (hypothyroidism) 

## Exams and Tests

Glaucoma may be one sign of the condition.

Tests may include:

    * CT scan
    * MRI scan
    * X-rays

## Treatment

Treatment is based on the person's signs and symptoms, and may include:

    * Anticonvulsant medicines for seizures
    * Eye drops or surgery to treat glaucoma
    * Laser therapy for port-wine stains
    * Physical therapy for paralysis or weakness
    * Possible brain surgery to prevent seizures

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on SWS:

    * The Sturge-Weber Foundation -- sturge-weber.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/sturge-weber-syndrome/#supporting-organizations
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/sturge-weber-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

SWS is usually not life threatening. The condition does need regular lifelong
follow-up. The person's quality of life depends on how well their symptoms
(such as seizures) can be prevented or treated.

The personÂ will need to visit an eye doctor (ophthalmologist) at least once a
year to treat glaucoma. They also will need to see a neurologist to treat
seizures and otherÂ nervous systemÂ symptoms.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Abnormal blood vessel growth in the skull
    * Continued growth of the port-wine stain
    * Developmental delays
    * Emotional and behavioral problems
    * Glaucoma, which may lead to blindness
    * Paralysis
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

The health care provider should check all birthmarks, including a port-wine
stain. Seizures, vision problems, paralysis, and changes in alertness or
mental state may mean the coverings of the brain are involved. These symptoms
should be evaluated right away.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Encephalotrigeminal angiomatosis; SWS

## Images

    * ![Sturge-Weber syndrome - soles of feet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3181t.jpg)Sturge-Weber syndrome - soles of feet
    * ![Sturge-Weber syndrome - legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2536t.jpg)Sturge-Weber syndrome - legs
    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system
    * ![Port wine stain on a child's face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2348t.jpg)Port wine stain on a child's face
    * ![Deep veins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8733t.jpg)Deep veins

## References

Flemming KD, Brown RD. Epidemiology and natural history of intracranial
vascular malformations. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological
Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 401.

Maguiness SM, Garzon MC. Vascular malformations. In: Eichenfield LF, Frieden
IJ, Mathes EF, Zaenglein AL, eds. _Neonatal and Infant Dermatology_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 22.

Sahin M. Neurocutaneous syndromes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 596.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks_thumb.jpg)Birthmarks
_Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

