Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001440.htm    
                                Description: Red birthmarks are skin markings created by blood vessels close to the skin surface. They develop before or shortly after birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Red birthmarks

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001440.htm

# Red birthmarks

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Red birthmarks are skin markings created by blood vessels close to the skin
surface. They develop before or shortly after birth.

## Causes

There are two main categories of birthmarks:

    * Red birthmarks are made up of blood vessels close to the skin surface. These are called vascular birthmarks.
    * Pigmented birthmarks are areas in which the color of the birthmark is different from the color of the rest of the skin. 

Hemangiomas are a common type of vascular birthmark. Their cause is unknown.
Their color is caused by the growth of blood vessels at the site. Different
types of hemangiomas include:

    * Strawberry hemangiomas (strawberry mark, nevus vascularis, capillary hemangioma, hemangioma simplex) may develop several weeks after birth. They may appear anywhere on the body, but are most often found on the neck and face. These areas consist of small blood vessels that are very close together.
    * Cavernous hemangiomas (angioma cavernosum, cavernoma) are similar to strawberry hemangiomas but they are deeper and may appear as a red-blue spongy area of tissue filled with blood.
    * Salmon patches (stork bites) are very common. Up to half of all newborns have them. They are small, pink, flat spots made up of small blood vessels that can be seen through the skin. They are most common on the forehead, eyelids, upper lip, between the eyebrows, and on the back of the neck. Salmon patches may be more noticeable when an infant cries or during temperature changes.
    * Port-wine stains are flat hemangiomas made of expanded tiny blood vessels (capillaries). Port-wine stains on the face may be associated with Sturge-Weber syndrome. They are most often located on the face. Their size varies from very small to over half of the body's surface. 

## Symptoms

The main symptoms of birthmarks include:

    * Marks on the skin that look like blood vessels
    * Skin rash or lesion that is red 

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider should examine all birthmarks. Diagnosis is based on
how the birthmark looks.

Tests to confirm deeper birthmarks include:

    * Skin biopsy
    * CT scan
    * MRI of the area 

## Treatment

Many strawberry hemangiomas, cavernous hemangiomas, and salmon patches are
temporary and do not need treatment.

Port-wine stains may not need treatment unless they:

    * Affect your appearance
    * Cause emotional distress
    * Are painful
    * Change in size, shape, or color 

Most permanent birthmarks are not treated before a child reaches school age or
the birthmark is causing symptoms. Port-wine stains on the face are an
exception. They should be treated at a young age to prevent emotional and
social problems. Laser surgery can be used to treat them.

Concealing cosmetics may hide permanent birthmarks.

Oral or injected cortisone may reduce the size of a hemangioma that is growing
quickly and affecting vision or vital organs.

Other treatments for red birthmarks include:

    * Beta-blocker medicines
    * Freezing (cryotherapy)
    * Laser surgery
    * Surgical removal

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Birthmarks rarely cause problems, other than changes in appearance. Many
birthmarks go away on their own by the time a child reaches school age, but
some are permanent. The following development patterns are typical for the
different types of birthmarks:

    * Strawberry hemangiomas usually grow quickly and stay the same size. Then they go away. Most strawberry hemangiomas are gone by the time a child is 9 years old. However, there may be a slight change in color or puckering of the skin where the birthmark was.
    * Some cavernous hemangiomas go away on their own, usually as a child is about school age.
    * Salmon patches often fade as the infant grows. Patches on the back of the neck may not fade. They usually are not visible as hair grows.
    * Port-wine stains are often permanent. 

## Possible Complications

The following complications can occur from birthmarks:

    * Emotional distress because of appearance
    * Discomfort or bleeding from vascular birthmarks (occasional)
    * Interference with vision or bodily functions
    * Scarring or complications after surgery to remove them

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Have your health care provider look at all birthmarks.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent birthmarks.

## Alternative Names

Strawberry mark; Vascular skin changes; Angioma cavernosum; Capillary
hemangioma; Hemangioma simplex

## Images

    * ![Stork bite](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17208t.jpg)Stork bite
    * ![Hemangioma on the face \(nose\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2426t.jpg)Hemangioma on the face (nose)
    * ![Hemangioma on the chin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2907t.jpg)Hemangioma on the chin

## References

Habif TP. Vascular tumors and malformations. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Vascular disorders of infancy and childhood. In: Paller
AS, Mancini AJ, eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric Dermatology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Patterson JW. Vascular tumors. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks_thumb.jpg)Birthmarks
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

