Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001472.htm    
                                Description: Mongolian spots are a kind of birthmark that are flat, blue, or blue-gray. They appear at birth or in the first few weeks of life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mongolian blue spots

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001472.htm

# Mongolian blue spots

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mongolian spots are a kind of birthmark that are flat, blue, or blue-gray.
They appear at birth or in the first few weeks of life.

## Causes

Mongolian blue spots are common among people who are of Asian, Native
American, Hispanic, East Indian, and African descent.

The color of the spots are from a collection of melanocytes in the deeper
layers of the skin. Melanoctyes are cells that make the pigment (color) in the
skin.

## Symptoms

Mongolian spots are not cancerous and are not associated with disease. The
markings may cover a large area of the back.

The markings are usually:

    * Blue or blue-gray spots on the back, buttocks, base of spine, shoulders, or other body areas
    * Flat with irregular shape and unclear edges
    * Normal in skin texture
    * 2 to 8 centimeters wide, or larger 

Mongolian blue spots are sometimes mistaken for bruises. This can raise a
question about possible child abuse. It is important to recognize that
Mongolian blue spots are birthmarks, not bruises.

## Exams and Tests

No tests are needed. The health care provider can diagnose this condition by
looking at the skin.

If the provider suspects an underlying disorder, further tests will be done.

## Treatment

No treatment isÂ needed when Mongolian spots are normal birthmarks. If
treatment is needed, lasers may be used.

SpotsÂ may beÂ a sign of an underlying disorder. If so,Â treatment for that
problem will likely be recommended. Your provider can tell you more.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Spots that are normal birthmarks often fade in a few years. They are almost
always gone by the teen years.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

All birthmarks should be examined by a provider during the routine newborn
examination.

## Alternative Names

Mongolian spots; Congenital dermal melanocytosis; Dermal melanocytosis

## Images

    * ![Mongolian blue spots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17262t.jpg)Mongolian blue spots
    * ![Neonate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9692t.jpg)Neonate

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Melanocytic nevi and
neoplasms. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 30.

McClean ME, Martin KL. Cutaneous nevi. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 670.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks_thumb.jpg)Birthmarks
_Read more_

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

