

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC and the Global Health Security Agenda

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far

Minus

Related Pages

![GHSA banner](/globalhealth/security/ghsa5year/images/global-health-security-
agenda_banner.jpg)

![Icon Recirculate
](/globalhealth/security/images/icons/1_GHSA_60px_icons.png)

Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far

![Icon Gear](/globalhealth/security/images/icons/2_GHSA_60px_icons.png)

CDC Driven Progress

![Icon Microscope](/globalhealth/security/images/icons/3_GHSA_60px_icons.png)

Rapid Outbreak Response

![Icon People](/globalhealth/security/images/icons/4_GHSA_60px_icons.png)

Sustainable Investment in GHS

![Icon Handshake](/globalhealth/security/images/icons/5_GHSA_60px_icons.png)

Multisectoral Solutions

![Icon Flag](/globalhealth/security/images/icons/6_GHSA_60px_icons.png)

The Road  
Ahead

Because of the nature of infectious diseases, everyone remains vulnerable -
including in the United States - until every country in the world can rapidly
identify and contain public health threats. In today's tightly connected
world, a disease can be transported from any remote village to any major city
on any continent in as little as 36 hours1. Recent disease outbreaks have
demonstrated that a disease threat anywhere is a disease threat everywhere.

**Emerging disease threats:** Emerging disease threats persist. Coronavirus
Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a virus identified as the cause of an outbreak of
respiratory illness first detected in Wuhan, China. As of January 2020, cases
were identified in a growing number of countries, including the United States.
In January 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak a
public health emergency of international concern and the U.S. Department of
Health & Human Services declared COVID-19 a public health emergency for the
United States.

**Measles:** Early data from WHO indicates that during the first six months of
2019, more measles cases were reported worldwide than in any year since
2006[2].  Already busy combatting an Ebola outbreak in DRC, WHO has
simultaneously reported "the world's worst measles epidemic" in DRC with the
death toll surpassing 6,000 people[3].

**Ebola Virus Disease:** The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is facing the
world's second largest EVD outbreak ever recorded. This outbreak is second
only to the 2014-2016 West Africa EVD outbreak, when three countries - Guinea,
Liberia and Sierra Leone - suffered largescale spread of the disease, with
seven additional countries, including the United States, also reporting cases.
The death toll of the 2014-2016 EVD epidemic reached more than 11,000[4].

**Polio:** Poliovirus, which is also a vaccine-preventable disease, is a
persistent threat and has remained a public health emergency of international
concern since 2014[5]. Fragile states and insecure areas pose a continued
threat to global health security.

**Zika:** In 15 months throughout 2015-2016, Zika virus spread to 68 countries
and territories, including the U.S. [6].

## Investing in Global Health Security

**CDC is investing in global health security to make the United States and the
world safer and more secure from infectious disease threats.**

Securing global health, ensuring domestic preparedness, eliminating disease,
and ending epidemics are top priorities for CDC. Since the inception of GHSA,
CDC has minimized public health threats by improving public health
preparedness at home and abroad. In 2014, the United States helped to launch
GHSA, seeking to accelerate progress toward a world that is safe and secure
from infectious disease threats and to promote global health security as an
international priority. As part of the U.S. Government's commitment to GHSA,
CDC invested in 17 partner countries to strengthen and sustain public health
readiness to contain outbreaks at their source **:** Bangladesh, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Liberia,
Mali, Pakistan, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Uganda, and Vietnam.

![CDC supports the 11 technical areas identified by the
GHSA](/globalhealth/security/ghsa5year/images/ghsa-lab-tech.jpg)

## What CDC Does

CDC supports the 11 technical areas identified by the GHSA framework with a
focus on four foundational areas that underlie all aspects of global health
security: surveillance systems, laboratory systems, workforce development, and
emergency management and response. CDC assistance to GHSA partner countries in
the development of these important functions has resulted in substantial
improvements to their readiness to combat infectious disease threats.

**Examples of CDC 's activities relating to these four essential public health
functions include**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Supporting surveillance systems that enable disease tracking and reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Creating faster and more accurate data sharing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Helping to build better laboratory systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Training an elite public health workforce of disease detectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Establishing and improving emergency operations centers (EOCs) that can respond more quickly to all public health events and National Public Health Institutes (NPHIs) that provide sustainable infrastructure for preparedness activities

[1] Jonas, O. (2013). _Pandemic Risk_. The World Bank. Retrieved from
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTNWDR2013/Resources/8258024-1352909193861/8936935-1356011448215/8986901-1380568255405/WDR14_bp_Pandemic_Risk_Jonas.pdf.

[2] World Health Organization. (2019). New measles surveillance data from WHO.
Retrieved from https://www.who.int/immunization/newsroom/new-measles-data-
august-2019/en/.

[3] Deaths from Democratic Republic of the Congo measles outbreak top 6000.
(2020, January 7). Retrieved January 9, 2020, from
https://www.afro.who.int/news/deaths-democratic-republic-congo-measles-
outbreak-top-6000.

[4] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2019). 2014-2016 Ebola
Outbreak in West Africa. Retrieved from
https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/history/2014-2016-outbreak/index.html

[5] Statement of the Twenty-Third IHR Emergency Committee Regarding the
International Spread of Poliovirus. (2020, January 7). Retrieved January 9,
2020, from https://www.who.int/news-room/detail/07-01-2020-statement-o-the-
twenty-third-ihr-emergency-committee-regarding-the-international-spread-of-
poliovirus.

[6] Ikejezie J, Shapiro CN, Kim J, et al. (2017). Zika Virus Transmission --
Region of the Americas, May 15, 2015-December 15, 2016. _MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly
Rep_ , _66_ (12):329-334.

« Global Health Security

Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far

CDC Driven Progress »

Page last reviewed: February 14, 2020

Content source: Global Health

home Global Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is CDC Doingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC and the Global Health Security Agendaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Driven Progress
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sustainable Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multisector Solutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Road Ahead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Health Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Immunization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HIV & TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Malaria & Parasitic Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other Diseases & Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food & Water

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ![Facebook Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/fb-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ![Twitter Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/twitter-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ![Instagram Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/ig-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ![YouTube Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/youtube-icon.png)
  
  

Social_govd Get Email Updates

Get CDC's free global health newsletter each week! Enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

