Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000828.htm    
                                Description: A birthmark is a skin marking that is present at birth. Birthmarks include cafe-au-lait spots, moles, and Mongolian spots. Birthmarks can be red or other colors.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Birthmarks - pigmented

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000828.htm

# Birthmarks - pigmented

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A birthmark is a skin marking that is present at birth. Birthmarks include
cafe-au-lait spots, moles, and Mongolian spots. Birthmarks can be red or other
colors.

## Causes

Different types of birthmarks have different causes.

    * Cafe-au-lait spots are common at or after birth. Someone who has many of these spots may have a genetic disorder calledÂ neurofibromatosis.
    * Moles are very common -- nearly everyone has them. Most moles appear after birth.
    * Mongolian spots are more common in people with darker skin.

## Symptoms

Each type of birthmark has its own appearance:

    * Cafe-au-lait spots are light tan, the color of coffee with milk.
    * Moles are small clusters of colored skin cells.
    * Mongolian spots (also called Mongolian blue spots) are usually bluish or bruised-looking. TheyÂ often appear over the lower back or buttocks. They are also found on other areas, such as the trunk or arms. 

Other signs of birthmarks are:

    * Abnormally dark or light skin
    * Growth of hair from pigmented skin
    * Skin lesion (area that is different from the skin around it)
    * Skin lumps
    * Textured skin that can be smooth, flat, raised, or wrinkled 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your skin to make the diagnosis. You
may have a biopsy to look for skin changes that are signs of cancer. Your
provider may take pictures of your birthmark to compare changes over time.

## Treatment

The type of treatment you have depends on the type of birthmark and related
conditions. Usually no treatment is needed for the birthmark itself.

Large birthmarks that affect your appearance and self-esteem may be covered
with special cosmetics.

You may have surgery to remove moles if they affect your appearance or raise
your risk for cancer. Talk to your provider about how and when any of your
moles should be removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Large moles that are present at birth may become melanoma, a type of skin
cancer. This is especially true if the mole covers an area larger than the
size of a fist. The cancer risk is related to the size, location, shape, and
color of the mole.

## Possible Complications

Complications of birthmarks can include:

    * Skin cancer
    * Emotional distress if the birthmark affects appearance 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Have your provider examine any birthmark. Tell your provider about any changes
in the birthmark, such as these:

    * Bleeding
    * Color change
    * Inflammation
    * Itching
    * Open sore (ulceration)
    * Pain
    * Size change
    * Texture change

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent birthmarks. A person with birthmarks should
use a strong sunscreen when outdoors (to prevent complications).

## Alternative Names

Hairy nevus; Nevi; Mole; Cafe-au-lait spots; Congenital nevus

## Images

    * ![Mongolian blue spots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17262t.jpg)Mongolian blue spots
    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Gawkrodger DJ, Ardern-Jones MR. Pigmentation. In: Gawkrodger DJ, Ardern-Jones
MR, eds. _Dermatology: An Illustrated Colour Text_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Disturbances of pigmentation. In: James WD,
Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical
Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Pigmented growths. In: Marks JG, Miller JJ, eds.
_Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks_thumb.jpg)Birthmarks
_Read more_

![Moles](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Moles_thumb.jpg)Moles _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

