Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002045.htm    
                                Description: Teething is the growth of teeth through the gums in the mouth of infants and young children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Teething

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002045.htm

# Teething

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Teething is the growth of teeth through the gums in the mouth of infants and
young children.

## Information

Teething usually begins when a baby is between 6 and 8 months old. All 20 baby
teeth should be in place by the time a child is 30 months old. Some children
do not show any teeth until much later than 8 months, but this is usually
normal.

    * The two bottom front teeth (lower incisors) usually come in first.
    * Next to grow in are usually the two top front teeth (upper incisors).
    * Then the other incisors, lower and upper molars, canines, and finally the upper and lower lateral molars come in. 

The signs of teething are:

    * Acting cranky or irritable
    * Biting or chewing on hard objects
    * Drooling, which may often begin before teething starts
    * Gum swelling and tenderness
    * Refusing food
    * Sleeping problems 

Teething does NOT cause fever or diarrhea. If your child develops a fever or
diarrhea and you are worried about it, talk to your health care provider.

Tips to ease your child's teething discomfort:

    * Wipe your baby's face with a cloth to remove the drool and prevent a rash.
    * Give your infant a cool object to chew on, such as a firm rubber teething ring or a cold apple. Avoid liquid-filled teething rings, or any plastic objects that might break.
    * Gently rub the gums with a cool, wet washcloth, or (until the teeth are right near the surface) a clean finger. You may place the wet washcloth in the freezer first, but wash it before using it again.
    * Feed your child cool, soft foods such as applesauce or yogurt (if your baby is eating solids).
    * Use a bottle, if it seems to help, but only fill it with water. Formula, milk, or juice can all cause tooth decay. 

You can buy the following medicines and remedies at the drug store:

    * Acetaminophen (Tylenol and others) or ibuprofen can help when your baby is very cranky or uncomfortable.
    * If your child is 2 years or older, teething gels and preparations rubbed on the gums may help the pain for a short while. Be careful not to use too much. DO NOT use these remedies if your child is younger than 2 years old. 

Be sure to read and follow package instructions before using any medicine or
remedy. If you are not sure how to use it, call your child's provider.

What not to do:

    * Do not tie a teething ring or any other object around your child's neck.
    * Do not place anything frozen against your child's gums.
    * Never cut the gums to help a tooth grow in, because this can lead to infection.
    * Avoid teething powders.
    * Never give your child aspirin or place it against the gums or teeth.
    * Do not rub alcohol on your baby's gums.
    * Do not use homeopathic remedies. They may contain ingredients that are not safe for infants.Â 

## Alternative Names

Eruption of primary teeth; Well child care - teething

## Images

    * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy
    * ![Development of baby teeth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1138t.jpg)Development of baby teeth
    * ![Teething symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9960t.jpg)Teething symptoms

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Teething: 4 to 7 months.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/teething-tooth-
care/Pages/Teething-4-to-7-Months.aspx. Updated October 6, 2016. Accessed
November 20, 2018.

American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry. Clinical Affairs Committee - Infant
Oral Health Subcommittee. Guidelines on infant oral health care. _Pediatr
Dent_. 2012;34(5):e148-e152. PMID: 23211901
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23211901.

Dean JA, Turner EG. Eruption of the teeth: local, systemic, and congenital
factors that influence the process. In: Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's
Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Dental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Dental Health _Read more_

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

