Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000020.htm    
                                Description: Bath time can be fun, but you need to be very careful with your child around water. Most drowning deaths in children happen at home, often when a child is left alone in the bathroom. DO NOT leave your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bathing an infant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000020.htm

# Bathing an infant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bath time can be fun, but you need to be very careful with your child around
water. Most drowning deaths in children happen at home, often when a child is
left alone in the bathroom. DO NOT leave your child alone around water, not
even for a few seconds.

## Ways to Prevent Bathing Accidents

These tips can help you prevent accidents in the bath:

    * Stay close enough to children who are in the tub so that you can reach out and hold them if they slip or fall.
    * Use non-skid decals or a mat inside the tub to prevent slipping.
    * Use toys in the tub to keep your child busy and sitting down, and away from the faucet.
    * Keep the temperature of your water heater below 120Â°F (48.9Â°C) to prevent burns.
    * Keep all sharp objects, such as razors and scissors, out of your child's reach.
    * Unplug all electric items, such as hair dryers and radios.
    * Empty the tub after bath time is over.
    * Keep the floor and your child's feet dry to prevent slipping. 

## Extra Tips for Newborns

You will need to be extra careful when bathing your newborn:

    * Have a towel ready to wrap your newborn in to dry and keep warm right after the bath.
    * Keep your baby's umbilical cord dry.
    * Use warm, NOT hot, water. Place your elbow under the water to check temperature.
    * Wash your baby's head last so that their head does not get too cold.
    * Bathe your baby every 3 days.

## Bathroom Safety

Other tips that can protect your child in the bathroom are:

    * Store medicines in the child-proof containers they came in. Keep the medicine cabinet locked.
    * Keep cleaning products out of reach of children.
    * Keep bathroom doors closed when they are not being used so your child cannot get in.
    * Place a door knob cover over the outside door handle.
    * DO NOT ever leave your child alone in the bathroom.
    * Place a lid lock on the toilet seat to keep a curious toddler from drowning. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk with your child's health care provider if you have questions about the
safety of your bathroom or your child's bathing routine.

## Alternative Names

Bathing safety tips; Infant bathing; Newborn bathing; Bathing your newborn
baby

## Images

    * ![Bathing a child](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22867t.jpg)Bathing a child

## References

Danby SG, Bedwell C, Cork MJ. Neonatal skin care and toxicology. In:
Eichenfield LF, Frieden IJ, Mathes EF, Zaenglein AL, eds. _Neonatal and Infant
Dermatology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 5.

National Resource Center for Health and Safety in Child Care and Early
Education. Standard 2.2.0.4: Supervision near bodies of water. In: _Caring for
Our Children: National Health and Safety Performance Standards, Guidelines for
Early Care and Education Programs_. 3rd ed. Washington, DC: National Resource
Center for Health and Safety in Child Care and Early Education; 2011.
nrckids.org/CFOC/Database/2.2.0.4. Accessed July 18, 2018.

Weiss J, American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Injury, Violence, and
Poison Prevention. Prevention of drowning. _Pediatrics_.
2010;126(1):e253-e262. PMID: 20498167 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20498167.

Wesley SE, Allen E, Bartsch H. Care of the newborn. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety - children

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infant and Newborn Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

