Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000753.htm    
                                Description: If your baby cries for longer than 3 hours a day, your baby might have colic. Colic is not caused by another medical problem. Many babies go through a fussy period. Some cry more than others.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colic and crying - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000753.htm

# Colic and crying - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If your baby cries for longer than 3 hours a day, your baby might have colic.
Colic is not caused by another medical problem. Many babies go through a fussy
period. Some cry more than others.

If you have a baby with colic, you are not alone. One in five babies cry
enough that people call them colicky. Colic usually starts when babies are
about 3 weeks old. It gets worse when they are between 4 and 6 weeks old. Most
of the time, colicky babies get better after they are 6 weeks old, and are
completely fine by the time they are 12 weeks old.

## Symptoms

Colic normally begins at about the same time every day. Babies with colic are
usually fussier in the evenings.

Colic symptoms often begin suddenly. Your baby's hands may be in a fist. The
legs may curl up and the belly may seem swollen. Crying may last for minutes
to hours. Crying often calms down when your baby is tired or when gas or stool
is passed.

Even though colicky babies look like they have belly pain, they eat well and
gain weight normally.

## Possible Causes of Colic

Causes of colic may include any of the following:

    * Pain from gas
    * Hunger
    * Overfeeding
    * Baby cannot tolerate certain foods or certain proteins in breast milk or formula
    * Sensitivity to certain stimuli
    * Emotions such as fear, frustration, or even excitement 

People around the baby may also seem worried, anxious, or depressed.

Often the exact cause of colic is unknown.

## Seeing Your Baby's Health Care Provider

Your baby's health care provider can often diagnose colic by asking you about
the baby's medical history, symptoms, and how long the crying lasts. The
provider will perform a physical exam and may do some tests to check your
baby.

The provider needs to make sure your baby does not have other medical
problems, such as reflux, a hernia, or intussusception.

## Avoiding Your Baby's Triggers

Foods that are passed through your breast milk to your baby may trigger colic.
If your baby is colicky and you are breastfeeding, avoid eating or drinking
the following foods for a few weeks to see if that helps.

    * Stimulants, such as caffeine and chocolate.
    * Dairy products and nuts. Your baby may have allergies to these foods. 

Some breastfeeding moms avoid eating broccoli, cabbage, beans, and other gas-
producing foods. But research has not shown that these foods can have a
negative effect on your baby.

Other possible triggers include:

    * Medicines passed through breast milk. If you are breastfeeding, talk to your own doctor about the medicines you take.
    * Baby formula. Some babies are sensitive to proteins in formula. Talk to your baby's doctor about switching formulas to see if that helps.
    * Overfeeding or feeding the baby too quickly. Bottle feeding your baby should take about 20 minutes. If your baby is eating faster, use a nipple with a smaller hole. 

Talk to a lactation consultant to learn more about the possible causes related
to breastfeeding.

## Comforting Your Baby

What comforts one baby may not calm another. And what calms your baby during
one episode may not work for the next. But try different techniques and
revisit what seems to help, even if it only helps a little.

If you breastfeed:

    * Allow your baby to finish nursing on the first breast before offering the second. The milk at the end of emptying each breast, called the hind milk, is far richer and sometimes more soothing.
    * If your baby still seems uncomfortable or is eating too much, offer only one breast as often as you want, over a 2 to 3 hour period. This will give your baby more hind milk. 

Sometimes it can be really hard to stop your baby from crying. Here are
techniques you may want to try:

    * Swaddle your baby. Wrap your baby snugly in a blanket.
    * Hold your baby. Holding your baby more may help them be less fussy in the evening. This will not spoil your baby. Try an infant carrier that you wear on your body to hold your baby close.
    * Gently rock your baby. Rocking calms your baby and can help your baby pass gas. When babies cry, they swallow air. They get more gas and more stomach pain, which causes them to cry more. Babies get in a cycle that is hard to break. Try an infant swing if your baby is at least 3 weeks old and can hold their head up.
    * Sing to your baby.
    * Hold your baby in an upright position. This helps your baby pass gas and reduces heartburn.
    * Try placing a warm towel or warm water bottle on the baby's stomach.
    * Lay babies on their stomach when they are awake and give them back rubs. DO NOT let babies sleep on their stomachs. Babies who sleep on their stomachs have a higher risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).
    * Give your baby a pacifier to suck on.
    * Put your baby in a stroller and go for a walk.
    * Put your baby in a car seat and go for a drive. If this works, look for a device that makes a car motion and sound.
    * Put your baby in a crib and turn on something with white noise. You can use a white noise machine, a fan, vacuum cleaner, washing machine, or dishwasher.
    * Simethicone drops are sold without a prescription and may help reduce gas. This medicine is not absorbed by the body and is safe for infants. A doctor may prescribe stronger medicines if your baby has severe colic that may be secondary to reflux. 

## Colic Always Goes Away

Your baby will most likely outgrow colic by 3 to 4 months of age. There are
usually no complications from colic.

Parents can get really stressed when a baby cries a lot. Know when you have
reached your limit and ask family members or friends to help. If you feel like
you may shake or hurt your baby, get help right away.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if your baby is:

    * Crying a lot and you are unable to calm your baby
    * 3 months old and still has colic 

You need to make sure that your baby does not have any serious medical
problems.

Call your baby's provider right away if:

    * Your baby's behavior or crying pattern changes suddenly
    * Your baby has a fever, forceful vomiting, diarrhea, bloody stools, or other stomach problems 

Get help right away for yourself if you feel overwhelmed or have thoughts of
harming your baby.

## Alternative Names

Infantile colic - self-care; Fussy baby - colic - self-care

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics. Healthychildren.org website. Colic relief tips
for parents. www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/crying-
colic/Pages/Colic.aspx. Updated June 24, 2015. Accessed July 23, 2019.

Onigbanjo MT, Feigelman S. The first year. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 22.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Common Infant and Newborn Problems
    * Infant and Newborn Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

