Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003293.htm    
                                Description: A reflex is a type of involuntary (without trying) response to stimulation. The Moro reflex is one of many reflexes that are seen at birth. It normally goes away after 3 or 4 months.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Moro reflex

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003293.htm

# Moro reflex

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A reflex is a type of involuntary (without trying) response to stimulation.
The Moro reflex is one of many reflexes that are seen at birth. It normally
goes away after 3 or 4 months.

## Considerations

Your baby's health care provider will check for this reflex right after birth
and during well-child visits.

To see the Moro reflex, the child will be placed face up on a soft, padded
surface.

The head is gently lifted with enough support to just begin to remove the body
weight from the pad. (Note: The infant's body should not be lifted off the
pad, only the weight removed.)

The head is then released suddenly, allowed to fall backward for a moment, but
quickly supported again (not allowed to bang on the padding).

The normal response is for the baby to have a startled look. The baby's arms
should move sideways with the palms up and the thumbs flexed. The baby may cry
for a minute.

As the reflex ends, the infant draws its arms back to the body, elbows flexed,
and then relaxes.

## Causes

This is a normal reflex present in newborn infants.

Absence of the Moro reflex in an infant is abnormal.

    * Absence on both sides suggests damage to the brain or spinal cord.
    * Absence on only one side suggests either a broken shoulder bone or an injury to the group of nerves that run from the lower neck and upper shoulder area into the arm may be present (these nerves are called brachial plexus). 

A Moro reflex in an older infant, child, or adult is abnormal.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

An abnormal Moro reflex is most often discovered by the provider. The provider
will perform a physical exam and ask about the child's medical history.
Medical history questions may include:

    * History of the labor and birth
    * Detailed family history
    * Other symptoms 

If the reflex is absent or abnormal, further tests may need to be done to
examine the child's muscles and nerves. Diagnostic tests, in cases of
decreased or absent reflex, may include:

    * Shoulder x-ray
    * Tests for disorders associated with brachial plexus injury

## Alternative Names

Startle response; Startle reflex; Embrace reflex

## Images

    * ![Moro reflex](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17269t.jpg)Moro reflex
    * ![Neonate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9692t.jpg)Neonate

## References

Lehman RK, Schor NF. Neurologic evaluation. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 590.

Rennie JM, Huertas-Ceballos A, Boylan GB, et al. Neuorological problems in the
newborn. In: Rennie JM, ed. _Rennie and Roberton's Textbook of Neonatology_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2012:chap 40.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

