Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000804.htm    
                                Description: Whether you feed your baby breast milk, infant formula, or both, you will need to buy bottles and nipples. You have many choices, so it can be hard to know what to buy. Learn about the different options    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Buying and caring for baby bottles and nipples

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000804.htm

# Buying and caring for baby bottles and nipples

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Whether you feed your baby breast milk, infant formula, or both, you will need
to buy bottles and nipples. You have many choices, so it can be hard to know
what to buy. Learn about the different options and how to care for bottles and
nipples.

## How to Choose Bottles and Nipples

The type of nipple and bottle you choose will mainly depend on which type your
baby will use. Some babies prefer a certain nipple shape, or they may have
less gas with certain bottles. Others are less fussy. Start by buying a few
different types of bottles and nipples. That way, you can try them out and see
what works best for you and your baby.

## Nipples

Nipples can be made from latex or silicone.

    * Latex nipples are softer and more flexible. But some babies are sensitive to latex, and it does not last as long as silicone.
    * Silicone nipples last longer and tend to hold their shape better. 

Nipples come in different shapes.

    * They can be dome-shaped, flat, or wide. Flat or wide nipples are shaped more like a mother's breast.
    * Try different shapes to see which one your baby prefers. 

Nipples come in different flow rates.

    * You can get nipples that have a slow, medium, or fast flow rate. These nipples are often numbered, 1 is the slowest flow.
    * Infants usually start with a smaller hole and slower flow. You will increase the size as your baby gets better at feeding and drinks more.
    * Your baby should be able to get enough milk without having to suck too hard.
    * If your baby is choking or spitting up, the flow is too fast. 

## Baby Bottles

Baby bottles come in different materials.

    *  **Plastic bottles** are lightweight and will not break if dropped. If you choose plastic, it is best to buy new bottles. Reused or hand-me-down bottles may contain bisphenol-A (BPA). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has banned the use of BPA in baby bottles due to safety concerns.
    *  **Glass bottles** do not have BPA and are recyclable, but they can break if dropped. Some manufacturers sell plastic sleeves to prevent bottles from breaking.
    *  **Stainless steel bottles** are sturdy and will not break, but they may be more expensive.
    *  **Disposable bottles** have a plastic sleeve inside that you throw away after each use. The liner collapses as baby drinks, which helps prevent air bubbles. Liners save on cleanup, and are handy for traveling. But they add an extra cost, as you need a new liner for every feeding. 

You can choose from several different bottle shapes and sizes:

    *  **Standard bottles** have straight or slightly rounded sides. They are easy to clean and fill, and you can easily tell how much milk is in the bottle.
    *  **Angle-neck bottles** are easier to hold. The milk collects at the end of the bottle. This helps prevent your baby from sucking in air. These bottles can be harder to fill and you need to hold them sideways or use a funnel.
    *  **Wide bottles** have a wide mouth and are short and squat. They are said to be more like a mother's breast, so they may be a good option for babies who go back and forth between breast and bottle.
    *  **Vented bottles** have a venting system inside to prevent air bubbles. They are said to help prevent colic and gas, but this is unproven. These bottles have a straw-like inner vent, so you will have more parts to keep track of, clean, and assemble. 

When your baby is small, start with the smaller 4- to 5-ounce (120- to
150-milliliters) bottles. As your baby's appetite grows, you can switch to
larger 8- to 9-ounce (240- to 270-milliliters) bottles.

## Cleaning and Care

These tips can help you safely care for and clean baby bottles and nipples:

    * When you first buy bottles and nipples, sterilize them. Place all of the parts in a pan covered with water and boil them for 5 minutes. Then wash with soap and warm water and air dry them.
    * Clean bottles right after you use them so the milk doesn't dry and become caked onto the bottle. Wash bottles and other parts with soap and warm water. Use a bottle and nipple brush to get at hard-to-reach areas. ONLY use these brushes on baby bottles and parts. Dry bottles and nipples on a drying rack on the counter. Make sure everything is completely dry before using again.
    * If bottles and nipples are labeled "dishwasher safe," you can wash and dry them in the top rack of the dishwasher.
    * Throw out cracked or torn nipples. Small pieces of the nipple can come off and cause choking.
    * Throw out cracked or chipped bottles, which can pinch or cut you or your baby.
    * Always wash your hands thoroughly before handling bottles and nipples.

## References

Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics website. Baby bottle basics.
www.eatright.org/health/pregnancy/breast-feeding/baby-bottle-basics. Updated
June 2013. Accessed May 29, 2019.

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Practical bottle feeding tips.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/feeding-
nutrition/Pages/Practical-Bottle-Feeding-Tips.aspx. Accessed May 29, 2019.

Goyal NK. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infant and Newborn Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

