Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000541.htm    
                                Description: As you prepare for your baby to come home, you will want to have many items ready. If you are having a baby shower, you can put some of these items on your gift registry. You can buy other items on your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Baby supplies you need

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000541.htm

# Baby supplies you need

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

As you prepare for your baby to come home, you will want to have many items
ready. If you are having a baby shower, you can put some of these items on
your gift registry. You can buy other items on your own before your baby is
born.

The more you plan ahead, the more relaxed and ready you will be when your baby
arrives.

Below is a list of items you will need.

## Crib and Bedding

For the crib and bedding you will need:

    * Sheets (3 to 4 sets). Flannel sheets are nice in the wintertime.
    * Mobile. This can entertain and distract a baby who is fussy or is having a hard time falling asleep.
    * Noise machine. You may want to get a machine that makes white noise (soft static or a rainfall). These sounds can be soothing for the baby and can help him sleep. 

## Changing Table Supplies

For the changing table you will need:

    * Diapers: (8 to 10 per day).
    * Baby wipes: Unscented, alcohol free. You may want to start with a small supply because some babies are sensitive to them.
    * Vaseline (petroleum jelly): Good to prevent diaper rash, and to care for a boy's circumcision.
    * Cotton balls or gauze pads to apply Vaseline.
    * Diaper rash cream.

## Rocking Chair With a Footstool

For the rocking chair you will need:

    * Pillow for resting your arm when nursing.
    * "Donut" pillow. This helps if you are sore from a tear or an episiotomy from your delivery.
    * Blanket to put around you and baby when it is chilly.

## Clothes for New Baby

For the baby's clothes you will need:

    * One-piece sleepers (4 to 6). Gown-types are the easiest for changing diapers and cleaning baby up.
    * Mittens for the baby's hands to keep them from scratching their face.
    * Socks or booties.
    * One-piece daytime outfits that snap (easiest for changing diapers and cleaning baby up).

## General Items

You will also need:

    * Burp cloths (a dozen, at least).
    * Receiving blankets (4 to 6).
    * Hooded bath towel (2).
    * Washcloths (4 to 6).
    * Bathtub, one with a "hammock" is easiest when the baby is tiny and slippery.
    * Baby bath and shampoo (baby safe, look for baby 'no tears' formulas).
    * Nursing pads and nursing bra.
    * Breast pump.
    * Car seat. Most hospitals require that this be properly installed before leaving the hospital. If you need help, ask your nurses at the hospital for help with installing it before bringing your baby home. 

## Alternative Names

Newborn care - baby supplies

## References

Carlo WA. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 94.

Wesley SE, Allen E, Bartsch H. Care of the newborn. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infant and Newborn Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

