Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001926.htm    
                                Description: When your baby is born the umbilical cord is cut and there is a stump left. The stump should dry and fall off by the time your baby is 5 to 15 days old. Keep the stump clean with gauze and water only.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Umbilical cord care in newborns

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001926.htm

# Umbilical cord care in newborns

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When your baby is born the umbilical cord is cut and there is a stump left.
The stump should dry and fall off by the time your baby is 5 to 15 days old.
Keep the stump clean with gauze and water only. Sponge bathe the rest of your
baby, as well. DO NOT put your baby in a tub of water until the stump has
fallen off.

Let the stump fall off naturally. DO NOT try to pull it off, even if it is
only hanging on by a thread.

Watch the umbilical cord stump for infection. This does not occur often. But
if it does, the infection can spread quickly.

Signs of a local infection at the stump include:

    * Foul-smelling, yellow drainage from the stump
    * Redness, swelling, or tenderness of the skin around the stump 

Be aware of signs of a more serious infection. Contact your baby's health care
provider immediately if your baby has:

    * Poor feeding
    * Fever of 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * Lethargy
    * Floppy, poor muscle tone 

If the cord stump is pulled off too soon, it could start actively bleeding,
meaning every time you wipe away a drop of blood, another drop appears. If the
cord stump continues to bleed, call your baby's provider immediately.

Sometimes, instead of completely drying, the cord will form pink scar tissue
called a granuloma. The granuloma drains a light-yellowish fluid. This will
most often go away in about a week. If it does not, call your baby's provider.

If your baby's stump has not fallen off in 4 weeks (and more likely much
sooner), call you baby's provider. There may be a problem with the baby's
anatomy or immune system.

## Alternative Names

Cord - umbilical; Neonatal care - umbilical cord

## Images

    * ![Umbilical cord healing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9055t.jpg)Umbilical cord healing
    * ![Sponge bath](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21733t.jpg)Sponge bath

## References

Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N. The umbilicus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 105.

Taylor JA, Wright JA, Woodrum D. Newborn nursery care. In: Gleason CA, Juul
SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

Wesley SE, Allen E, Bartsch H. Care of the newborn. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

