Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002397.htm    
                                Description: Infants have a cry reflex that is a normal response to stimuli, such as pain or hunger. Premature infants may not have a cry reflex. Therefore, they must be monitored closely for signs of hunger and pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crying in infancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002397.htm

# Crying in infancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Infants have a cry reflex that is a normal response to stimuli, such as pain
or hunger. Premature infants may not have a cry reflex. Therefore, they must
be monitored closely for signs of hunger and pain.

## Information

A cry is the infant's first verbal communication. It is a message of urgency
or distress. The sound is nature's way of ensuring that adults attend to the
baby as quickly as possible. It is very hard for most people to listen to a
crying baby.

Almost everyone recognizes that infants cry for many reasons and that crying
is a normal response. However, parents may feel a high amount of stress and
anxiety when a baby cries frequently. The sound is perceived as an alarm.
Parents are often frustrated at not being able to determine the cause of the
crying and soothe the baby. First time parents often question their parenting
abilities if a baby cannot be comforted.

WHY INFANTS CRY

At times, infants cry for no apparent reason. However, most crying is in
response to something. It may be hard to figure out what is bothering the
infant at the time. Some possible reasons include:

    * Hunger. Newborns want to eat day and night, often every 2 to 3 hours.
    * Pain caused by gas or intestinal spasms after feedings. The pain develops if the baby has been fed too much or not burped enough. Foods that a breastfeeding mother eats may cause gas or pain in her child.
    * Colic. Many infants ages 3 weeks to 3 months develop a crying pattern associated with colic. Colic is a normal part of development that may be triggered by many factors. It usually occurs in the late afternoon or evening hours.
    * Discomfort, such as from a wet diaper.
    * Feeling too hot or too cold. Babies may also cry from feeling too wrapped up in their blanket, or from wanting to be bundled up tightly.
    * Too much noise, light, or activity. These can slowly or suddenly overwhelm your baby. 

Crying is probably part of the normal development of the central nervous
system. Many parents say they can hear a difference in tone between a cry for
feeding and a cry caused by pain.

WHAT TO DO WHEN A BABY IS CRYING

When you are not sure why your baby is crying, first try to eliminate the
sources that you can take care of:

    * Make sure the baby is breathing easily and the fingers, toes, and lips are pink and warm.
    * Check for swelling, redness, wetness, rashes, cold fingers and toes, twisted arms or legs, folded earlobes, or pinched fingers or toes.
    * Make sure the baby is not hungry. DO NOT delay for long when your baby shows signs of hunger.
    * Make sure you are feeding the child the proper amount and burping the baby correctly.
    * Check to see that your baby is not too cold or too hot.
    * Check to see whether the diaper needs to be changed.
    * Make sure there is not too much noise, light, or wind, or not enough stimulation and interaction. 

Here are a few ways to soothe a crying baby:

    * Try playing soft, gentle music for comfort.
    * Talk to your baby. The sound of your voice may be reassuring. Your baby may also be calmed by the hum or sound of a fan or clothes dryer.
    * Change the infant's position.
    * Hold your baby close to your chest. Sometimes, infants need to experience familiar sensations, such as the sound of your voice in your chest, your heartbeat, the feel of your skin, the smell of your breath, the movement of your body, and the comfort of your hug. In the past, babies were held constantly and the absence of a parent meant danger from predators or abandonment. You cannot spoil a baby by holding them during infancy. 

If the crying continues for longer than usual and you cannot calm the baby,
call a health care provider for advice.

Try to get enough rest. Tired parents are less able to care for their baby.

Use the resources of family, friends, or outside caregivers to allow yourself
time to recover your energy. This will also be helpful for your baby. It does
not mean that you are a bad parent or are abandoning your child. As long as
caregivers are taking safety precautions and comforting the baby when
necessary, you may be sure that your child is well cared for during your
break.

Call your provider immediately if your baby's crying occurs with symptoms such
as fever, diarrhea, vomiting, rash, breathing difficulty, or other signs of
illness.

## Images

    * ![Baby burping position](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19651t.jpg)Baby burping position

## References

Ditmar MF. Behavior and development. In: Polin RA, Ditmar MF, eds. _Pediatric
Secrets_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Crying and colic. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson's Essentials of Pediatrics_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 11.

Taylor JA, Wright JA, Woodrum D. Newborn nursery care. In: Gleason CA, Juul
SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

