Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002395.htm    
                                Description: Changes in the newborn at birth refer to the changes an infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Changes in the newborn at birth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002395.htm

# Changes in the newborn at birth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Changes in the newborn at birth refer to the changes an infant's body
undergoes to adapt to life outside the womb.

## Information

LUNGS, HEART, AND BLOOD VESSELS

The mother's placenta helps the baby "breathe" while it is growing in the
womb. Oxygen and carbon dioxide flow through the blood in the placenta. Most
of it goes to the heart and flows through the baby's body.

At birth, the baby's lungs are filled with fluid. They are not inflated. The
baby takes the first breath within about 10 seconds after delivery. This
breath sounds like a gasp, as the newborn's central nervous system reacts to
the sudden change in temperature and environment.

Once the baby takes the first breath, a number of changes occur in the
infant's lungs and circulatory system:

    * Increased oxygen in the lungs causes a decrease in blood flow resistance to the lungs.
    * Blood flow resistance of the baby's blood vessels also increases.
    * Fluid drains or is absorbed from the respiratory system.
    * The lungs inflate and begin working on their own, moving oxygen into the bloodstream and removing carbon dioxide by breathing out (exhalation). 

BODY TEMPERATURE

A developing baby produces about twice as much heat as an adult. A small
amount of heat is removed through the developing baby's skin, the amniotic
fluid, and the uterine wall.

After delivery, the newborn begins to lose heat. Receptors on the baby's skin
send messages to the brain that the baby's body is cold. The baby's body
creates heat by burning stores of brown fat, a type of fat found only in
fetuses and newborns. Newborns are rarely seen to shiver.

LIVER

In the baby, the liver acts as a storage site for sugar (glycogen) and iron.
When the baby is born, the liver has various functions:

    * It produces substances that help the blood to clot.
    * It begins breaking down waste products such as excess red blood cells.
    * It produces a protein that helps break down bilirubin. If the baby's body does not properly break down bilirubin, it can lead to newborn jaundice. 

GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT

A baby's gastrointestinal system doesn't fully function until after birth.

In late pregnancy, the baby produces a tarry green or black waste substance
called meconium. Meconium is the medical term for the newborn infant's first
stools. Meconium is composed of amniotic fluid, mucus, lanugo (the fine hair
that covers the baby's body), bile, and cells that have been shed from the
skin and intestinal tract. In some cases, the baby passes stools (meconium)
while still inside the uterus.

URINARY SYSTEM

The developing baby's kidneys begin producing urine by 9 to 12 weeks into the
pregnancy. After birth, the newborn will usually urinate within the first 24
hours of life. The kidneys become able to maintain the body's fluid and
electrolyte balance.

The rate at which blood filters through the kidneys (glomerular filtration
rate) increases sharply after birth and in the first 2 weeks of life. Still,
it takes some time for the kidneys to get up to speed. Newborns have less
ability to remove excess salt (sodium) or to concentrate or dilute the urine
compared to adults. This ability improves over time.

IMMUNE SYSTEM

The immune system begins to develop in the baby, and continues to mature
through the child's first few years of life. The womb is a relatively sterile
environment. But as soon as the baby is born, they are exposed to a variety of
bacteria and other potential disease-causing substances. Although newborn
infants are more vulnerable to infection, their immune system can respond to
infectious organisms.

Newborns do carry some antibodies from their mother, which provide protection
against infection. Breastfeeding also helps improve a newborn's immunity.

SKIN

Newborn skin will vary depending on the length of the pregnancy. Premature
infants have thin, transparent skin. The skin of a full-term infant is
thicker.

Characteristics of newborn skin:

    * A fine hair called lanugo might cover the newborn's skin, especially in preterm babies. The hair should disappear within the first few weeks of the baby's life.
    * A thick, waxy substance called vernix may cover the skin. This substance protects the baby while floating in amniotic fluid in the womb. Vernix should wash off during the baby's first bath.
    * The skin might be cracking, peeling, or blotchy, but this should improve over time. 

## Alternative Names

Birth - changes in the newborn

## Images

    * ![Meconium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9616t.jpg)Meconium

## References

Carlo WA.The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 94.

Olsson JM. The newborn. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Rozance PJ, Rosenberg AA. The neonate. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

