Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002320.htm    
                                Description: Cranial sutures are fibrous bands of tissue that connect the bones of the skull.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cranial sutures

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002320.htm

# Cranial sutures

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cranial sutures are fibrous bands of tissue that connect the bones of the
skull.

## Information

An infant's skull is made up of 6 separate cranial (skull) bones:

    * Frontal bone
    * Occipital bone
    * Two parietal bones
    * Two temporal bones 

These bones are held together by strong, fibrous, elastic tissues called
sutures.

The spaces between the bones that remain open in babies and young children are
called fontanelles. Sometimes, they are called soft spots. These spaces are a
part of normal development. The cranial bones remain separate for about 12 to
18 months. They then grow together as part of normal growth. They stay
connected throughout adulthood.

Two fontanelles usually are present on a newborn's skull:

    * On the top of the middle head, just forward of center (anterior fontanelle)
    * In the back of the middle of the head (posterior fontanelle) 

The posterior fontanelle usually closes by age 1 or 2 months. It may already
be closed at birth.

The anterior fontanelle usually closes sometime between 9 months and 18
months.

The sutures and fontanelles are needed for the infant's brain growth and
development. During childbirth, the flexibility of the sutures allows the
bones to overlap so the baby's head can pass through the birth canal without
pressing on and damaging their brain.

During infancy and childhood, the sutures are flexible. This allows the brain
to grow quickly and protects the brain from minor impacts to the head (such as
when the infant is learning to hold his head up, roll over, and sit up).
Without flexible sutures and fontanelles, the child's brain could not grow
enough. The child would develop brain damage.

Feeling the cranial sutures and fontanelles is one way that health care
providers follow the child's growth and development. They are able to assess
the pressure inside the brain by feeling the tension of the fontanelles. The
fontanelles should feel flat and firm. Bulging fontanelles may be a sign of
increased pressure within the brain. In this case, providers may need to use
imaging techniques to see the brain structure, such as CT scan or MRI scan.
Surgery may be needed to relieve the increased pressure.

Sunken, depressed fontanelles are sometimes a sign of dehydration.

## Alternative Names

Fontanelles; Sutures - cranial

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn
    * ![Fontanelles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17179t.jpg)Fontanelles

## References

Goyal NK. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

Varma R, Williams SD. Neurology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

