Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003292.htm    
                                Description: A reflex is a muscle reaction that happens automatically in response to stimulation. Certain sensations or movements produceÂ specific muscle responses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Infant reflexes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003292.htm

# Infant reflexes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A reflex is a muscle reaction that happens automatically in response to
stimulation. Certain sensations or movements produceÂ specific muscle
responses.

## Considerations

The presence and strength of a reflex is an important sign of nervous system
development and function.

Many infant reflexes disappear as the child grows older, although some remain
through adulthood. A reflex that is still present after the age when it would
normally disappear can be a sign of brain or nervous system damage.

Infant reflexes are responses that are normal in infants, but abnormal in
other age groups. These include:

    * Moro reflex
    * Sucking reflex (sucks when area around mouth is touched)
    * Startle reflex (pulling arms and legs in after hearing loud noise)
    * Step reflex (stepping motions when sole of foot touches hard surface) 

Other infant reflexes include:

TONIC NECK REFLEX

This reflex occurs when the head of a child who is relaxed and lying face up
is moved to the side. The arm on the side where the head is facing reaches
away from the body with the hand partly open. The arm on the side away from
the face is flexed and the fist is clenched tightly. Turning the baby's face
in the other direction reverses the position. The tonic neck position is often
described as the fencer's position because it looks like a fencer's stance.

TRUNCAL INCURVATION OR GALANT REFLEX

This reflex occurs when the side of the infant's spine is stroked or tapped
while the infant lies on the stomach. The infant will twitch their hips toward
the touch in a dancing movement.

GRASP REFLEX

This reflex occurs if you place a finger on the infant's open palm. The hand
will close around the finger. Trying to remove the finger causes the grip to
tighten. Newborn infants have strong grasps and can almost be lifted up if
both hands are grasping your fingers.

ROOTING REFLEX

This reflex occurs when the baby's cheek is stroked. The infant will turn
toward the side that was stroked and begin to make sucking motions.

PARACHUTE REFLEX

This reflex occurs in slightly older infants when the child is held upright
and the baby's body is rotated quickly to face forward (as in falling). The
baby will extend his arms forward as if to break a fall, even though this
reflex appears long before the baby walks.

Examples of reflexes that last into adulthood are:

    * Blinking reflex: blinking the eyes when they are touched or when a sudden bright light appears
    * Cough reflex: coughing when the airway is stimulated
    * Gag reflex: gagging when the throat or back of the mouth is stimulated
    * Sneeze reflex: sneezing when the nasal passages are irritated
    * Yawn reflex: yawning when the body needs more oxygen 

## Causes

Infant reflexes can occur in adults who have:

    * Brain damage
    * Stroke 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

The health care provider will often discover abnormal infant reflexes during
an exam that is done for another reason. Reflexes that remain longer than they
should may be a sign of a nervous system problem.

Parents should talk to their child's provider if:

    * They have worries about their child's development.
    * They notice that baby reflexes continue in their child after they should have stopped. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the child's medical
history.

Questions may include:

    * What reflexes did the baby have?
    * At what age did each infant reflex disappear?
    * What other symptoms are present (for example, decreased alertness or seizures)? 

## Alternative Names

Primitive reflexes; Reflexes in infants; Tonic neck reflex; Galant reflex;
Truncal incurvation; Rooting reflex; Parachute reflex; Grasp reflex

## Images

    * ![Infantile reflexes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17234t.jpg)Infantile reflexes
    * ![Moro reflex](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17269t.jpg)Moro reflex

## References

Feldman HM, Chaves-Gnecco D. Developmental/behavioral pediatrics. In: Zitelli
BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric
Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 3.

Lehman RK, Schor NF. Neurologic evaluation. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 590.

Rennie JM, Huertas-Ceballos A, Boylan GB, et al. Neurological problems in the
newborn. In: Rennie JM, ed. _Rennie and Roberton's Textbook of Neonatology_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2012:chap 40.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

