Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002301.htm    
                                Description: A newborn infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin findings in newborns

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002301.htm

# Skin findings in newborns

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A newborn infant's skin goes through many changes both in appearance and
texture.

## Information

The skin of a healthy newborn at birth has:

    * Deep red or purple skin and bluish hands and feet. The skin darkens before the infant takes their first breath (when they make that first vigorous cry).
    * A thick, waxy substance called vernix covering the skin. This substance protects the fetus's skin from the amniotic fluid in the womb. Vernix should wash off during the baby's first bath.
    * Fine, soft hair (lanugo) that may cover the scalp, forehead, cheeks, shoulders, and back. This is more common when an infant is born before the due date. The hair should disappear within the first few weeks of the baby's life. 

Newborn skin will vary, depending on the length of the pregnancy. Premature
infants have thin, transparent skin. The skin of a full-term infant is
thicker.

By the baby's second or third day, the skin lightens somewhat and may become
dry and flaky. The skin still often turns red when the infant cries. The lips,
hands, and feet may turn bluish or spotted (mottled) when the baby is cold.

Other changes may include:

    * Milia, (tiny, pearly-white, firm raised bumps on the face) which disappear on their own.
    * Mild acne that most often clears in a few weeks. This is caused by some of the mother's hormones that stay in the baby's blood.
    * Erythema toxicum. This is a common, harmless rash that looks like little pustules on a red base. It tends to appear on the face, trunk, legs, and arms about 1 to 3 days after delivery. It disappears by 1 week. 

Colored birthmarks or skin markings may include:

    * Congenital nevi are moles (darkly pigmented skin markings) that may be present at birth. They range in size from as small as a pea to large enough to cover an entire arm or leg, or a large portion of the back or trunk. Larger nevi carry a greater risk of becoming skin cancer. The health care provider should follow all nevi.
    * Mongolian spots are blue-gray or brown spots. They can emerge on the skin of the buttocks or back, mainly in dark-skinned babies. They should fade within a year.
    * CafÃ©-au-lait spots are light tan, the color of coffee with milk. They often appear at birth, or may develop within the first few years. Children who have many of these spots, or large spots, may be more likely to have a condition called neurofibromatosis. 

Red birthmarks may include:

    * Port-wine stains -- growths that contain blood vessels (vascular growths). They are red to purplish in color. They are frequently seen on the face, but may occur on any area of the body.
    * Hemangiomas -- a collection of capillaries (small blood vessels) that may appear at birth or a few months later.
    * Stork bites \-- small red patches on the baby's forehead, eyelids, back of the neck, or upper lip. They are caused by stretching of the blood vessels. They often go away within 18 months. 

## Alternative Names

Newborn skin characteristics; Infant skin characteristics; Neonatal care -
skin

## Images

    * ![Erythema toxicum on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1328t.jpg)Erythema toxicum on the foot
    * ![Skin characteristics](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17221t.jpg)Skin characteristics
    * ![Milia - nose](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2677t.jpg)Milia - nose
    * ![Cutis marmorata on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2872t.jpg)Cutis marmorata on the leg
    * ![Miliaria crystallina - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2891t.jpg)Miliaria crystallina - close-up
    * ![Miliaria crystallina - chest and arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2892t.jpg)Miliaria crystallina - chest and arm
    * ![Miliaria crystallina - chest and arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2893t.jpg)Miliaria crystallina - chest and arm

## References

Balest AL, Riley MM, Bogen DL. Neonatology. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC,
Norwalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

Olsson JM. The newborn. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Sahin M. Neurocutaneous syndromes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 596.

Walker VP. Newborn evaluation. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases
of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 25.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

