Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002270.htm    
                                Description: Newborn head molding is an abnormal head shape that results from pressure on the baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Newborn head molding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002270.htm

# Newborn head molding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Newborn head molding is an abnormal head shape that results from pressure on
the baby's head during childbirth.

## Information

The bones of a newborn baby's skull are soft and flexible, with gaps between
the plates of bone.

The spaces between the bony plates of the skull are called cranial sutures.
The front (anterior) and back (posterior) fontanelles are 2 gaps that are
particularly large. These are the soft spots you can feel when you touch the
top of your baby's head.

When a baby is born in a head-first position, pressure on the head in the
birth canal may mold the head into an oblong shape. These spaces between the
bones allow the baby's head to change shape. Depending on the amount and
length of pressure, the skull bones may even overlap.

These spaces also allow the brain to grow inside the skull bones. They will
close as the brain reaches its full size.

Fluid may also collect in the baby's scalp (caput succedaneum), or blood may
collect beneath the scalp (cephalohematoma). This may further distort the
shape and appearance of the baby's head. Fluid and blood collection in and
around the scalp is common during delivery. It will most often go away in a
few days.

If your baby is born breech (buttocks or feet first) or by cesarean delivery
(C-section), the head is most often round. Very severe abnormalities in head
size are NOT related to molding.

Related topics include:

    * Craniosynostosis
    * Macrocephaly (abnormally large head size)
    * Microcephaly (abnormally small head size) 

## Alternative Names

Newborn cranial deformation; Molding of the newborn's head; Neonatal care -
head molding

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn
    * ![Fetal head molding](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17176t.jpg)Fetal head molding
    * ![Newborn head molding](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9696t.jpg)Newborn head molding

## References

Graham JM, Sanchez-Lara PA. Vertex birth molding. In: Graham JM, Sanchez-Lara
PA, eds. _Smiths' Recognizable Patterns of Human Deformation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 35.

Lissauer T. Physical examination of the newborn. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA,
Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of
the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
29.

Walker VP. Newborn evaluation. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases
of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 25.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

