Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003294.htm    
                                Description: Babinski reflex is one of the normal reflexes in infants. Reflexes are responses that occur when the body receives a certain stimulus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Babinski reflex

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003294.htm

# Babinski reflex

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Babinski reflex is one of the normal reflexes in infants. Reflexes are
responses that occur when the body receives a certain stimulus.

The Babinski reflex occurs after the sole of the foot has been firmly stroked.
The big toe then moves upward or toward the top surface of the foot. The other
toes fan out.

This reflex is normal in children up to 2 years old. It disappears as the
child gets older. It may disappear as early as 12 months.

## Causes

When the Babinski reflex is present in a child older than 2 years or in an
adult, it is often a sign of a central nervous system disorder. The central
nervous system includes the brain and spinal cord. Disorders may include:

    * Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig disease)
    * Brain tumor or injury 
    * MeningitisÂ (infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord)
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Spinal cord injury, defect, or tumor 
    * Stroke

## Alternative Names

Reflex - Babinski; Extensor plantar reflex; Babinski sign

## References

Griggs RC, Jozefowicz RF, Aminoff MJ. Approach to the patient with neurologic
disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 396.

Schor NF. Neurologic evaluation. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 608.

Strakowski JA, Fanous MJ, Kincaid J. Sensory, motor, and reflex examination.
In: Malanga GA, Mautner K, eds. _Musculoskeletal Physical Examination: An
Evidence-Based Approach_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 2.

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Care](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornCare_thumb.jpg)Infant and
Newborn Care _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

