Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000677.htm    
                                Description: Bonding happens when you and your baby begin to feel a strong attachment with each other. You may feel great love and joy when you look at your baby. You may feel very protective of your baby.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bonding with your newborn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000677.htm

# Bonding with your newborn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bonding happens when you and your baby begin to feel a strong attachment with
each other. You may feel great love and joy when you look at your baby. You
may feel very protective of your baby.

It is this first relationship with you that teaches babies to feel secure and
good about themselves with other people. They learn to trust you because they
know you are paying attention to them and taking care of them. Babies that
have strong bonds with their parents are more likely to trust others and have
good relationships as adults.

## Bonding is a Process

You and your baby may bond within a few minutes, over a few days, or a few
weeks. Bonding may take longer if your baby needed intensive medical care at
birth, or if you adopted your baby. Know that you can bond with your adopted
baby as well as biological parents bond with their children.

DO NOT worry or feel guilty if it takes more time than you expected to form a
close bond with your baby. This does not mean that you are a bad parent. As
long as you are taking care of your baby's basic needs, the bond will form.

## Tips for Bonding with your Baby

If the birthing process went smoothly, your baby may be very alert at birth.
Take this time to hold and look at your baby. This is a great chance to bond.
Other bonding moments can occur when you:

    * Breastfeed. If you chose to breastfeed, your baby will become attached to your smell and touch during feedings.
    * Bottle-feed. During bottle feedings, your baby can become acquainted with your smell and touch, as well.
    * Hold your baby, especially skin to skin when you can.
    * Make eye contact with your baby.
    * Respond to your baby when he cries. Some people worry about spoiling a baby. But you will not spoil your baby with too much attention.
    * Play with your baby.
    * Talk, read, and sing to your baby. This helps him become well acquainted with the sound of your voice. 

## Accept Help from Others

When you bring your newborn home, your job is to take care of your baby and
bond. This is easier if you have help at home. You may become very tired from
all the new responsibilities that come with having a new baby. Let friends and
family take on routine chores like laundry, grocery shopping, and cooking.

## Obstacles to Bonding

You may have trouble bonding with your baby if you:

    * Had a long or difficult birthing process
    * Feel exhausted
    * Experience mood swings or hormonal changes
    * Suffer from postpartum depression
    * Have a baby who needs special medical care 

Again, this does not mean that you are a bad parent or that you will never
form a bond. It just may take more time and effort.

## When to Call your Doctor

After a few weeks of caring for your newborn, if you do not feel like you are
bonding or you feel detached or resentful of your baby, talk to a health care
provider. If you have postpartum depression, be sure to get professional help
for yourself as soon as possible.

## References

Carlo WA. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 94.

Robinson L, Saisan J, Smith M, Segal J. Building a secure attachment bond with
your baby. www.helpguide.org/articles/parenting-family/building-a-secure-
attachment-bond-with-your-baby.htm. Accessed March 13, 2019.

US Department of Health and Human Services website. Bonding with your baby.
www.childwelfare.gov/pubPDFs/bonding.pdf. Accessed March 13, 2019.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infant and Newborn Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

