

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Global Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Frequently Asked Questions About CDC Jobs and Opportunities Around the World

Minus

Related Pages

#### On this Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How are people hired for overseas assignments with CDC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the qualifications for employment at CDC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Are non-US citizens or US Permanent Residents eligible for Federal employment with CDC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Does CDC have employment opportunities overseas for students?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How long are CDC overseas assignments?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What should I consider when selecting overseas locations on the USAJOBS application form?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Is housing covered during my overseas employment?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Will my family be allowed to travel and live overseas with me?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Are there overseas employment opportunities for spouses?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is the GS series and what is the series and grade system?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the requirements to qualify for GS jobs?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is the Commissioned Corps?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Must I have international experience to be considered for an Overseas Assignment?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How do domestic Federal employees acquire international experience?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the benefits of the IETA program?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How can I join IETA?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How can non-Federal Employees acquire international experience?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do I need a graduate degree to work at CDC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What counts as work experience?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How can I obtain proof of prior Federal employment?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is reinstatement? Am I eligible?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are Competitive Service jobs?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is Veterans' Preference?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the benefits offered to CDC employees?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How do US citizens apply for a job with CDC?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How can I know the status of my application?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How will I be evaluated during the selection process?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If I am selected, will I have to undergo a background investigation?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If I am not selected, how can I find out why I was not eligible for the position I applied for?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Will I receive orientation and training?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What happens if I decline an offer of employment?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is a Term Appointment?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * I accepted a Term Appointment, what happens once the Term Assignment is over?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is a Temporary Promotion?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Will my salary be the same overseas as it would be in the U.S.?

### How are people hired for overseas assignments with CDC?

US citizens may apply through USA JOBSExternal for either temporary or
permanent appointments. Temporary appointments do not provide Federal Civil
Service career status but are generally more available. Permanent appointments
give the employee Federal career status but are very limited and require that
the employee sign a rotational agreement*.

Current CDC employees can apply either externally or internally for overseas
positions. CDC employees who apply for an internal announcement at a higher
grade than their current position will generally be given a temporary
promotion for the term of the overseas assignment. Note that if a current
Federal employee applies as an external candidate and accepts a temporary or
term overseas position, the employee will not retain the Federal employee
status at the end of the temporary overseas assignment and is subject to the
terms of the temporary or term appointment. CDC is under no obligation to re-
employ the employee at the end of the temporary or term appointment. The
employee will be given priority consideration, however, for any vacant
positions available at the end of the temporary or term appointment.

**Rotational agreements** require that you agree to work in an overseas
location for a specific period of time and that the agency may require you to
move to a different location or you may be terminated from CDC employment.

Top of Page

### What are the qualifications for employment at CDC?

Minimum qualifications vary according to the position and are specified in the
vacancy announcement posted in USAJOBS. Each vacancy announcement summarizes
the qualification requirements for the position announced.

Top of Page

### Are non-US citizens or US Permanent Residents eligible for Federal
employment with CDC?

Non-US Citizens are eligible for employment through fellowship programs, as
contract staff with companies with a viable contract with CDC, as individual
contractors, and as Title 42 Senior and Associate Fellows. These appointments
are generally made for 2 years, with the option to extend in 2-year increments
not to exceed a maximum of 10 years.

In most cases, Non-US citizens are not hired as career Federal Civil Service
employees. For more information about employment of non-citizens by the
federal government, go to: New to the Federal Government - U.S. Citizens and
Non-CitizensExternal.

CDC also uses the Senior Service Fellowship Program to hire qualified U.S.
Citizens and non-U.S. Citizens for overseas positions. Applicants hired
through this program are given a limited Excepted Service appointment*.

**Excepted Service Agreement:**  
The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) provides excepted service hiring
authorities to fill special jobs or to fill any job in unusual or special
circumstances under "Schedules A, B, and C." These excepted service
authorities enable agencies to hire when it is not feasible or not practical
to use traditional competitive hiring procedures, and can streamline hiring.

For more information please visit: opm.govExternal

Top of Page

### Does CDC have employment opportunities overseas for students?

CDC does not send students on international assignments; however, CDC does
have domestic opportunities. Students have the opportunity to gain valuable
experience through summer jobs, internships, and work study programs. Some
programs offer benefits for students' academic career development. CDC student
programs include Student Educational Employment programs, The Student Summer
Employment Program, volunteer service, and a work/study program.

For more information visit: https://www.cdc.gov/employment/menu_student.html

Top of Page

### How long are CDC overseas assignments?

Overseas assignments are generally a minimum of 2 years and maximum of 8
years. ****

Top of Page

### What should I consider when selecting overseas locations on the USAJOBS
application form?

To increase the chances of being selected, applicants are encouraged to select
all locations where they are willing to accept a position. Applications will
not be considered for locations left unchecked. ****

Top of Page

### Is housing covered during my overseas employment?

Generally, yes. U.S. Government employees are assigned embassy-approved
housing or provided a living quarters allowance if no USG housing is
available. Exceptions to this policy will be considered on a case-by-case
base.

Top of Page

### Will my family be allowed to travel and live overseas with me?

Yes, families are allowed to accompany federal employees to their overseas
assignments, except for a few countries where there are security concerns or
lack of education or health facilities. Eligible family members must be
medically cleared before they accompany a CDC employee on an overseas
assignment. If a family member has a serious medical condition or chronic
disease that requires special treatment or accommodations, overseas  
assignments may not be appropriate.

Top of Page

### Are there overseas employment opportunities for spouses?

Yes. Employment opportunities for spouses or family members vary by country of
assignment. The State Department's Family Liaison Office maintains a list of
job opportunities at most posts and may be contacted directly once an employee
is selected for a post and all clearances are secured. Employment of the
spouse or family member by CDC must be approved by COGH before deployment.
Spouses or family members of CDC employees detailed to international
organizations, such as WHO or UNICEF, may not be eligible for employment by
the embassy.

Top of Page

### What is the GS series and what is the series and grade system?

GS stands for General Schedule. It is the pay system used by most Federal
Agencies. Series and grade refer to the Federal government's system for
categorizing and defining jobs. For more information on job classifications
and pay visit: _http://www.opm.gov/fedclass/index.htm External_.

If you have never worked in the Federal government, you do not have to enter a
series or grade for previous, non-government jobs. Upon application, however,
you will be prompted to pick the highest grade you desire and are eligible
for. For more information on the General Schedule (GS) positions visit:
http://www.opm.gov/oca/08tables/indexGS.aspExternal.

Top of Page

### What are the requirements to qualify for GS jobs?

Each job announcement will include the required experience under Basic
Qualifications or Substitution of Graduate Level Education requirements and
may include General Experience and/or Specialized Experience*. The U.S. Office
of Personnel Management (OPM) publishes qualification standards for all
General Schedule positions in the Qualification Standards Operating Manual.
For more information visit: http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/External.

**General experience** does not necessarily have to be directly related to the
job to be filled; however, it must demonstrate that the employee has the
ability to perform the work of the position. This is for a GS-5 and below.

**Specialized experience** must be closely related to the work to be performed
in the job for which you are applying. At least one year of the specialized
experience must have been comparable to work at the next lower grade in the
Federal service.  
If you have an advanced degree, you can qualify for GS-9 positions on the
basis of a master's degree, and for GS-11 on the basis of a doctorate. At
these levels, however, the advanced degree must be directly related to the
work of the job to be filled.

Top of Page

### What is the Commissioned Corps?

The U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps is an elite team of more
than 6,000 well-trained, highly qualified public health professionals
dedicated to delivering the Nation's public health promotion and disease
prevention programs and advancing public health science. Driven by a passion
for public service, these men and women serve on the frontlines in the
Nation's fight against disease and poor health conditions. For more
information visit: _http://www.usphs.gov/AboutUs/ External_

Top of Page

### Must I have international experience to be considered for an Overseas
Assignment?

Although not always required, international experience makes you more
competitive.

Top of Page

### How do domestic Federal employees acquire international experience?

You may gain international experience through the International Experience and
Technical Assistance Program (IETA)*.

IETA is a developmental training program for Federal public health employees
which goal is to increase the number of CDC staff with international training
and experience. For more information please visit:
https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/IETA/

**The International Experience and Technical Assistance Program (IETA)** is
coordinated by the Coordinating Office for Global Health, at the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta, Georgia. IETA is a
developmental training program for Federal public health employees.
Established in 1997, the aim of the program is to increase the number of CDC
staff with international training and experience. Thirty participants are
recruited each year from CDC and other public health service agencies.
Participants are sought from throughout the CDC and from Federal Public Health
Service (PHS) agencies. IETA combines three classroom training sessions with a
three month field assignment to enhance their skills in international public
health settings.

Top of Page

### What are the benefits of the IETA program?

The IETA program will build a pool of CDC staff qualified for and interested
in long-term assignments in our global programs. IETA provides its
participants with a supervised international work experience in the global
health sector.

Top of Page

### How can I join IETA?

The application cycle begins September 1st, with the deadline for application
submission set during mid-October. To find out more about the program, view
eligibility requirements, and access the program application, please visit our
website at: https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/IETA/  


Top of Page

### How can non-Federal Employees acquire international experience?

Through programs such as the Peace Corps or other international volunteer
experiences. For more information visit: http://www.peacecorps.gov/External.

Top of Page

### Do I need a graduate degree to work at CDC?

The educational requirements depend on the grade level and type of desired
position where either qualifications or specialized experience will be
required. Please read the job announcement requirements carefully to learn
more about that specific position.

Top of Page

### What counts as work experience?

Any work experience (including volunteer, summer jobs, etc) counts if it is
related to the position for which you are applying. Make sure  
the experience is reflected in the submitted resume, as well as in your
answers to the USAJOBS questions about the related experience.

Top of Page

### How can I obtain proof of prior Federal employment?

You can obtain proof of prior Federal employment by writing or calling the
Federal Records Center, National Archives and Records Administration, 111
Winnebago Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63118, 314-538-5761. Inquiries should
include your full name under which formerly employed, social security number,
date of birth, and to the extent known, names and addresses of former Federal
agencies, and dates of employment. For more information visit:
http://www.archives.gov/index.htmlExternal

Top of Page

### What is reinstatement? Am I eligible?

Reinstatement allows you to reenter the Federal competitive service workforce
without competing with the general public for civil service positions. You may
apply for any open civil service position, but reinstatement eligibility also
enables you to apply for Federal jobs open only to status candidates. You must
have held a career appointment at the time of your separation or career-
conditional appointment within the 3 years preceding your application for
reinstatement. There are exceptions to the 3 year requirements. Contact your
HR representative for more detailed information.

Top of Page

### What are Competitive Service jobs?

In the Competitive Service, jobs are subject to the civil service laws passed
by Congress. These laws ensure that applicants and employees receive fair and
equal treatment in the hiring process. They give selecting officials broad
authority to review more than one applicant source before determining the
best-qualified candidate based on job-related criteria. A basic principle of
Federal employment is that all candidates must meet the qualification
requirements for the position for which they receive an appointment.

Top of Page

### What is Veterans' Preference?

Veterans' preference recognizes the economic loss suffered by citizens who
have served their country in uniform in times of strife, restores veterans to
a favorable competitive position for Government employment, and acknowledges
the larger obligation owed to disabled veterans. Historically, Congress has
reserved preference for those who were either disabled, who served in combat
areas or during certain periods of time. For more information visit:
_http://www.opm.gov/veterans/html/vetsinfo.asp External_

Top of Page

### What are the benefits offered to CDC employees?

As a federal employee, you may be entitled to a range of employee benefits
including, but not limited to health insurance, life insurance, long term care
insurance, retirement, work-life programs (e.g., child care, elder care,
etc.), flexible spending accounts, alternative work schedules, telework,
competitive salaries, and a host of other entitlements to make your employment
with the federal government rewarding.  
For more information on benefits visit: USAJOBS: Pay and BenefitsExternal

Top of Page

### How do US citizens apply for a job with CDC?

Create and save your resume and responses to core questions and the self-
assessment on-line at USAJOBSExternal.

Find the desired position and submit your resume by clicking on the apply
option. Complete the required sections.

Submit your answers and check for the confirmation e-mail that your
application has been completed.

Print your application confirmation and obtain the required documents and fax
them to 866-539-4484.

For more information on how to apply visit these websites:  
https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/Main_PageExternal  
http://www.hhs.gov/careers/apply/index.htmlExternal  
https://www.cdc.gov/employment/menu_faq_application.html

Top of Page

### How can I know the status of my application?

To check the status of your application log in to USAJOBS, select My USAJOBS
tab, select the Applications link, you will see a list of all your
applications and their status on the Application Status column. For more
information visit:  
_http://www.hhs.gov/careers/apply.html#apply External_

Once your application is complete, you will receive an e-mail notifying the
receipt of your application. Only applicants who are selected for future
processing are contacted thereafter. For more information visit:
https://www.cdc.gov/employment/faq.htm

Top of Page

### How will I be evaluated during the selection process?

You will be evaluated on the quality and extent of your experience, education,
and training relevant to the duties of this position. The evaluation will be
based on information you provide in your on-line resume, your answers to the
vacancy specific questions for the announcement, and a review of the documents
that are requested as part of the application package. If you are among the
best qualified candidates for the position your name will be referred to the
selected officials.

The names and applications of the most qualified candidates are referred to
the supervisor or selecting official. Selection procedures are subject to
Federal Civil Service laws, which ensure that all applicants receive fair and
equal treatment in the hiring process. For more information and tips on
interviewing visit:
http://www.usajobs.gov/infocenter/interviewtips.aspExternal

Top of Page

### If I am selected, will I have to undergo a background investigation?

Overseas employment in the federal government require at a secret or top
secret security clearance. The clearance process considers such factors as
registration for the Selective Service; failure to repay a U.S. government-
guaranteed student loan; past problems with credit or bankruptcy; failure to
meet tax obligations; unsatisfactory employment records; violations of the
law, drug or alcohol abuse; as well as a less-than-honorable discharge from
the armed forces. Investigations, which usually take two to four months,
include current and previous neighbors, supervisors and coworkers. Depending
on the nature of the job, you may begin work on a provisional basis, pending
completion of the clearance process.

Top of Page

### If I am not selected, how can I find out why I was not eligible for the
position I applied for?

You may ask the Human Resources number listed on the position announcement for
your score and/or the reason you were not selected.

Top of Page

### Will I receive orientation and training?

CDC employees will receive two orientations designed specifically for their
first assignment prior to deployment. The focus of orientation is to introduce
new employees to the structure and function of the Agency and its role in the
development and implementation of Global Health; to develop an understanding
of the terms of employment; and to enhance core skills needed by all
employees. Additionally, the program which will be sending you overseas will
provide its own orientation program.

Top of Page

### What happens if I decline an offer of employment?

If a candidate declines an offer of employment, his/her name will remain on
the register until the candidacy period runs out. Yes, if there is an open
continuous announcement. If not, the candidate must re-apply for any other
positions that interests him/her and must be ranked one of the most qualified
candidates to be considered again.

Top of Page

### What is a Term Appointment?

Term Appointments can be identified by a statement in the job announcement
such as: " _This is a term appointment not to exceed X time_ ". Also the job
announcement number will be identified by a "D", for example: "HHS-CDC- **D3**
-2008-0028".

Top of Page

### I accepted a Term Appointment, what happens once the Term Assignment is
over?

A Term Appointment will not provide Federal Employee status at the end of the
term appointment. Once the Term Appointment is over CDC is under no obligation
to provide employment after your overseas assignment; however, CDC will
relocate you back to your home of record.

Previous **Federal** employees who have taken a temp or term appointment may
be eligible for reinstatement for future vacancies for a period of time
depending on their status when they accepted the temporary position. Priority
consideration for reemployment will be given to employees with reinstatement
eligibility.

If you are placed in a position upon your return to the U.S., your overseas
pay will be used to determine the appropriate step of the grade to which you
are appointed

Top of Page

### What is a Temporary Promotion?

A temporary promotion is a temporary assignment for a specified period of time
to a position at a higher grade where the employee is paid at the higher
grade. Merit promotion procedures must be followed if the temporary promotion
is expected to exceed 120 calendar days.

Upon returning to the U.S. you will be placed back to the lower grade from
which you were temporarily promoted. You will be eligible for highest previous
rate and your pay at the lower grade will be set at the step that equals or
exceeds your temporary promotion salary. For more information on grade and pay
retention visit: _http://www.opm.gov/oca/pay/html/PYQA_ALL.asp External_

Top of Page

### Will my salary be the same overseas as it would be in the U.S.?

No, while you are in the U.S., you receive locality pay based on your U.S.
duty station. When you relocate to your overseas duty station, you will no
longer receive the U.S. locality pay. However, depending upon your location,
you may be eligible allowances authorized at your new duty station. The
following link will provide assistance in understanding the allowances:
http://aoprals.state.gov/content.asp?content_id=184&menu_id=78External

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 5, 2015

Content source: Global Health

home Global Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is CDC Doingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC and the Global Health Security Agendaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Driven Progress
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sustainable Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multisector Solutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Road Ahead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Immunization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV & TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Malaria & Parasitic Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Diseases & Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food & Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Where We Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Download Country Fact Sheets 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Strategy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Our Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Newsroomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Expertsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rebecca Martin, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hamid Jafari, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nancy Knight, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Monica Parise, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * W. William Schluter, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hank Tomlinson, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ray R. Arthur, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Polio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis (TB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featured Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publication Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * In the News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Our Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Photo Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dear Colleague Letters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Photos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate Our Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CGH Accomplishments 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Impact by the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advancing Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreaks and Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ending the Burden of Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV Research, Policy, and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Research for Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria and Parasitic Disease Control in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Technology and Innovation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs & Opportunitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training, Fellowships, & Internships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Volunteering
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contracting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Students & Recent Graduates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Returned Peace Corps Volunteers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IETA Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Assignments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eligibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Application Process

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Facebook Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/fb-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Twitter Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/twitter-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Instagram Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/ig-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![YouTube Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/youtube-icon.png)
  
  

Social_govd Get Email Updates

Get CDC's free global health newsletter each week! Enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

