Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000616.htm    
                                Description: You may find a time when you want to stop or change your medicine. But changing or stopping your medicine on your own can be dangerous. It could make your condition worse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When you feel like changing your medicine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000616.htm

# When you feel like changing your medicine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You may find a time when you want to stop or change your medicine. But
changing or stopping your medicine on your own can be dangerous. It could make
your condition worse.

Learn how to talk to your health care provider and pharmacist about your
medicine. You can make decisions together so you feel well with your
medicines.

## Common Reasons for Changing Medicine

You may think about stopping or changing your medicine when you:

    * Feel better
    * Think it is not working
    * Are having side effects and feel bad
    * Are worried about the costs 

## Do not Stop Taking Your Medicine When you Feel Better

You often feel better quickly from taking some medicine. You may feel like you
do not need to take it anymore.

If you stop taking your medicine before you are supposed to, you will not get
its full effect, or your condition can get worse. Here are some examples:

    * When you take antibiotics, you will feel better in 1 to 2 days. If you stop taking the medicine early, you may get sick again.
    * If you are taking a steroid pack for your asthma, you will feel better quickly. You may think you can stop taking it because you feel so good. Suddenly stopping a steroid pack can make you feel very sick. 

## Do not Stop Taking Your Medicine if you Think it Isn't Working

If you do not feel better, you may think your medicine is not working. Talk to
your provider before you make any changes. Find out:

    * What to expect from the medicine. Some medicines may take more time to make a difference.
    * If you are taking the medicine correctly.
    * If there is another medicine that may work better.

## If Your Medicine Makes you Feel Sick, Talk to Your Doctor

Some medicines may make you feel sick. You may have a sick stomach, itchy
skin, dry throat, or something else that does not feel right.

When your medicine makes you feel sick, you may want to stop taking it. Talk
to your provider before stopping any medicine. The provider may:

    * Change your dose so you do not feel sick from it.
    * Change your medicine to a different kind.
    * Give you suggestions on how to feel better when taking the medicine. 

## Talk to Your Doctor if you Can't Afford Your Medicine

Medicines can cost a lot of money. If you are worried about money, you may
want to cut costs.

DO NOT cut pills in half unless your provider tells you to. DO NOT take fewer
doses than prescribed or take your medicine only when you feel bad. Doing so
can make your condition worse.

Talk to your provider if you do not have enough money for your medicine. Your
provider may be able to change your medicine to a generic brand that costs
less. Many pharmacies and drug companies have programs for reducing the cost
for people.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider when you feel like changing your medicine. Know all the
medicines that you take. Tell your provider about your prescription medicines,
over-the-counter drugs, and any vitamins, supplements, or herbs. Together with
your provider, decide what medicines you will take.

## Alternative Names

Medication - non-compliance; Medication - nonadherence

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. 20 tips to help prevent
medical errors: patient fact sheet. www.ahrq.gov/patients-consumers/care-
planning/errors/20tips/index.html. Updated August 2018. Accessed September 17,
2018.

Naples JG, Handler SM, Maher RL, Schmader KE, Hanlon JT. Geriatric
pharmacotherapy and polypharmacy. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 101.

National Institute on Aging website. Safe use of medicines for older adults.
www.nia.nih.gov/health/safe-use-medicines-older-adults. Updated May 23, 2017.
Accessed September 17, 2018.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medicines
    * Talking With Your Doctor

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

