Link: https://medlineplus.gov/autismspectrumdisorder.html    
                                Description: Find out about autism spectrum disorder symptoms, causes, treatment, and other issues related to this developmental disorder.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Autism Spectrum Disorder

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/autismspectrumdisorder.html

#  Autism Spectrum Disorder

Also called: ASD, Pervasive developmental disorder (PDD)

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurological and developmental disorder
that begins early in childhood and lasts throughout a person's life. It
affects how a person acts and interacts with others, communicates, and learns.
It includes what used to be known as Asperger syndrome and pervasive
developmental disorders.

It is called a "spectrum" disorder because people with ASD can have a range of
symptoms. People with ASD might have problems talking with you, or they might
not look you in the eye when you talk to them. They may also have restricted
interests and repetitive behaviors. They may spend a lot of time putting
things in order, or they may say the same sentence again and again. They may
often seem to be in their "own world."

At well-child checkups, the health care provider should check your child's
development. If there are signs of ASD, your child will have a comprehensive
evaluation. It may include a team of specialists, doing various tests and
evaluations to make a diagnosis.

The causes of ASD are not known. Research suggests that both genes and
environment play important roles.

There is currently no one standard treatment for ASD. There are many ways to
increase your child's ability to grow and learn new skills. Starting them
early can lead to better results. Treatments include behavior and
communication therapies, skills training, and medicines to control symptoms.

NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Start Here

    * Autism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)
    * Autism Spectrum Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish
    * Autism Spectrum Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Signs and Symptoms of Autism (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Autism: Diagnosis (Autism Society)
    * Autism: Why Act Early? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * PTEN Genetic Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Autism: Beware of Potentially Dangerous Therapies and Products (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Therapies for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Treatments for Autism? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * 100 Day Kit for Newly Diagnosed Families of School Age Children (Autism Speaks) \- PDF
    * Autism and Your Family (Autism Society)
    * Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) and Diet (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)
    * Autism through the Lifespan (Autism Society)
    * Individualized Education Plans (IEPs) (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Occupational Therapy's Role with Autism (American Occupational Therapy Association) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD): Related Topics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Communication Problems in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
    * Is There a Connection Between Vaccines and Autism? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Asperger Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: 16p11.2 deletion syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: ADNP syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: autism spectrum disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: MBD5-associated neurodevelopmental disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Timothy syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: White-Sutton syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learning about Autism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Health Check Tools

    * Developmental Milestones (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * ![new](https://medlineplus.gov/images/new.gif) Autism Spectrum Disorder: Engaging in a Social World ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Baby Teeth Link Autism and Heavy Metals, NIH Study Suggests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)
    * New Data on Autism: Five Facts to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Prenatal Inflammation Linked to Autism Risk ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Asperger Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Autism Spectrum Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Autistic Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Child Development Disorders, Pervasive ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Autism spectrum disorders and oral health status: review of the literature.
    * Article: Identification of a robust non-coding RNA signature in diagnosing autism spectrum...
    * Article: Reality-Based Technologies for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Recommendation for...
    * Autism Spectrum Disorder -- see more articles
    * \-- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Psychologist Locator (American Psychological Association)

## Children

    * Kids' Quest: Autism (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Teenagers

    * Autism (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Asperger syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Autism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Childhood disintegrative disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Autism Spectrum Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Autism.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Asperger syndrome
    * Autism
    * Childhood disintegrative disorder

## Related Health Topics

    * Child Behavior Disorders
    * Child Development
    * Fragile X Syndrome

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Autism Spectrum Disorder is the
National Institute of Mental Health

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Autism Spectrum
Disorder_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Predicting Autism in High-Risk Infants

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 13 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

