Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000877.htm    
                                Description: Shared decision making is when health care providers and patients work together to decide the best way to test for and treat health problems. There are many test and treatment options for most health conditions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shared decision making

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000877.htm

# Shared decision making

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shared decision making is when health care providers and patients work
together to decide the best way to test for and treat health problems. There
are many test and treatment options for most health conditions. So your
condition may be managed in more than one way.

Your provider will go over all your options with you. The two of you will make
a decision based on your provider's expertise and your values and goals.

Shared decision making helps you and your provider choose a treatment you both
support.

## When to use Shared Decision Making

Shared decision making is often used when you and your provider need to make
big decisions such as:

    * Taking a medicine for the rest of your life
    * Having major surgery
    * Getting genetic or cancer screening tests

Talking together about your options helps your provider know how you feel and
what you value.

## How Shared Decision Making Works

When facing a decision, your provider will fully explain your options. You can
bring friends or family members to your visits to help in the shared decision
making process.

You will learn about the risks and benefits of each option. These may include:

    * Medicines and possible side effects
    * Tests and any follow-up tests or procedures you may need
    * Treatments and possible results 

Your provider also may explain why some tests or treatments are not available
to you.

To help you decide, you may want to ask your provider about using decision
aids. These are tools that can help you understand your goals and how they
relate to treatment. It can also help you know what questions to ask.

Once you know your options and the risks and benefits, you and your provider
may decide to go ahead with a test or procedure, or wait. Together, you and
your provider can make better health care decisions.

## How to Find a Provider you can Talk With

When facing a big decision, you want to choose a provider who is good at
communicating with patients. You should also learn what you can do to get the
most out of talking with your provider. This will help you and your provider
communicate openly and build a relationship of trust.

## Alternative Names

Patient-centered care

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. The SHARE approach.
www.ahrq.gov/professionals/education/curriculum-
tools/shareddecisionmaking/index.html. Updated August 2018. Accessed August
13, 2018.

Barry M, Edgman-Levitan S. Shared decision making--pinnacle of patient-
centered care. _N Engl J Med_. 2012;366(9):780-781. PMID: 22375967
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22375967.

Hersch J, Jansen J, McCaffery K. Informed and shared decision making in breast
screening. In: Houssami N, Miglioretti D, eds. _Breast Cancer Screening_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

Oshima Lee E, Emanuel EJ. Shared decision making to improve care and reduce
costs. _N Engl J Med_. 2013;368(1):6-8. PMID: 23281971
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23281971.

Vaiani CE, Brody H. Ethics and professionalism in surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 2.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Talking With Your Doctor

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

