Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000919.htm    
                                Description: Telehealth is using electronic communications to provide or get health care services. You can get health care using phones, computers, or mobile devices. You find health information or talk with your health    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Telehealth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000919.htm

# Telehealth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Telehealth is using electronic communications to provide or get health care
services. You can get health care using phones, computers, or mobile devices.
You find health information or talk with your health care provider using
streaming media, video chats, email, or text messages. Your provider can use
telehealth to remotely monitor your health with devices that can remotely
record vital signs, medicine intake, and other health information. Your
provider can also communicate with other providers using telehealth.

Telehealth is also called telemedicine.

## Information

Telehealth can make it quicker and easier to get or provide health services.

 **HOW TO USE TELEHEALTH**

Here are just a few ways telehealth is used.

**Email.** You can use email to ask your provider questions or order
prescription refills. If you get a test done, the results can be sent to your
providers by email. Or, one provider can share and discuss results with
another specialist. These may include:

    * X-rays
    * MRIs
    * Photos
    * Patient data
    * Video-exam clips 

You can also share your personal health records by email with another
provider. That means you do not have to wait for paper records to be mailed to
you before your appointment.

 **Live video conferencing.** You can make an appointment and use video chat
to talk to your provider or join online support groups. During an office
visit, you and your provider can use video chat to talk with a specialist
about your care without everyone being in the same place.

 **Mhealth (mobile health).** You can use a mobile device to talk with or text
your provider. You can use health apps to track things like your blood sugar
levels or diet and exercise results and share it with your providers. You can
receive text or email reminders for appointments.

**Remote patient monitoring (RPM).** This allows your provider to monitor your
health from afar. You keep devices to measure your heart, blood pressure, or
blood glucose in your home. These devices collect data and send it to your
provider to monitor your health. Using RPM can lower your chances of getting
sick or needing to go to the hospital.

RPM can be used for long-term illnesses such as:

    * Diabetes
    * Heart disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Kidney disorders 

**Online health information.** You can watch videos to learn specific skills
to help you manage health conditions like diabetes or asthma. You can also
read health information online to help you make informed decisions about your
care with your provider.

With telehealth, your health information remains private. Providers must use
computer software that keeps your health records safe.

**BENEFITS OF TELEHEALTH**

Telehealth has many benefits. It can help:

    * You get care without traveling long distances if you live far from your doctor or medical center
    * You get expert care from a specialist in a different state or city
    * You save time and money spent on travelling
    * Older or disabled adults who have a hard time getting to appointments
    * You get regular monitoring of health problems without having to go in as often for appointments
    * Reduce hospitalizations and allow people with chronic disorders have more independence 

**TELEHEALTH AND INSURANCE**

Not all health insurance companies pay for all telehealth services. And
services may be limited for people on Medicare or Medicaid. Also, states have
different standards for what they will cover. It is a good idea to check with
your insurance company to be sure telehealth services will be covered.

## Alternative Names

Telehealth; Telemedicine; Mobile health (mHealth); Remote patient monitoring;
E-health

## References

American Telemedicine Association website. Telehealth basics.
www.americantelemed.org/resource/why-telemedicine. Accessed June 1, 2018.

Health Resources and Services Administration website. Telehealth.
www.hrsa.gov/rural-health/resources/index.html. Updated November 2015.
Accessed June 1, 2018.

Rheuban KS, Krupinski EA. _Understanding Telehealth_. New York, NY: McGraw-
Hill Education; 2018.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 05-23-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Talking With Your Doctor

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

