Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000860.htm    
                                Description: A visit with your health care provider is a good time to share health concerns and ask questions. Preparing ahead for your appointment can help you get the most from your time together.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Make the most of your doctor visit

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000860.htm

# Make the most of your doctor visit

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A visit with your health care provider is a good time to share health concerns
and ask questions. Preparing ahead for your appointment can help you get the
most from your time together.

When you see your provider, be honest about your symptoms and lifestyle
habits. Ask questions to make sure you understand. Taking an active role in
your health can help you get the best care possible.

## How to Prepare

Before your visit, jot down your questions and concerns. You may want to ask
things like:

    * Am I due for any screening tests?
    * Should I keep taking this medicine?
    * What could be causing my symptoms?
    * Do I have other treatment options?
    * Should I worry about my family medical history? 

Also be sure to write down all medicines, vitamins, and supplements you take.
Include over-the-counter medicines and herbal supplements as well. Bring this
list with you to your appointment.

If you are having symptoms, write down details before the visit.

    * Describe your symptoms
    * Describe when and where they appear
    * Explain how long you have had symptoms and if they have changed 

Put the notes in your purse or wallet so that you do not forget to bring them.
You can also put the notes in your phone or in an email to your provider.
Writing things down makes it easier to remember details at the time of your
visit.

If you need support, invite a friend or family member to come with you. They
can help you understand and remember what you need to do.

Make sure to have your insurance card with you at the time of your visit. Tell
the office if your insurance has changed.

## What to Share and ask

What you do and how you feel can affect your health. Here are some things you
want to share.

 **Life changes.** These may include:

    * Job changes
    * Family changes, such as death, divorce, or adoption
    * Threat or acts of violence
    * Planned trips outside of the country (in case you need shots)
    * New activities or sports 

**Medical history.** Go over any past or current health conditions or
surgeries. Tell your provider about any family history of disease.

 **Allergies.** Tell your provider about any past or current allergies or any
new allergy symptoms.

 **Medicines and supplements.** Share your list at your appointment. Tell your
provider if you are having any side effects from your medicines. Ask about
special instructions for the medicines you take:

    * Are there possible interactions or side effects?
    * What is each medicine supposed to do? 

**Lifestyle habits.** Be honest about your habits, your provider will not
judge you. Alcohol and drugs can interfere with medicines or cause certain
symptoms. Tobacco use puts you at risk for a number of health problems. Your
provider needs to know about all of your habits in order to best treat you.

 **Symptoms.** Share your notes about your symptoms. Ask your provider:

    * Which tests might help to find the problem?
    * What are the benefits and risks of tests and treatment options?
    * When should you call your provider if your symptoms do not improve? 

**Prevention.** Ask if there are screening tests or vaccines you should have.
Are there any lifestyle changes you should make? What can you expect for
results?

**Follow-up.** Ask your provider when you should schedule more appointments.

## After Your Visit

Your provider may want you to:

    * See a specialist
    * Have a test
    * Take a new medicine
    * Schedule more visits 

For the best results, follow your provider's instructions. Take medicines as
directed, and go to any follow-up appointments.

Write down any new questions about your health, medicines, or treatment.
Continue to keep a record of any symptoms and all of your medicines.

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider when:

    * You have side effects from medicines or treatments
    * You have new, unexplained symptoms
    * Your symptoms get worse
    * You are given new prescriptions from another provider
    * You want the results of a test
    * You have questions or concerns 

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) website. Before your
appointment: questions are the answer. www.ahrq.gov/patients-
consumers/patient-involvement/ask-your-doctor/questions-before-
appointment.html. Updated September 2012. Accessed August 10, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. See a doctor before you
travel. wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/see-doctor. Updated January 13, 2011.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

National Institute of Health website. Talking to your doctor.
www.nih.gov/institutes-nih/nih-office-director/office-communications-public-
liaison/clear-communication/talking-your-doctor. Updated November 27, 2017.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Talking With Your Doctor

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

