Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000469.htm    
                                Description: When you are unable to speak for yourself due to an illness, your health care providers may be unclear as to what type of care you would like.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Health care agents

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000469.htm

# Health care agents

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you are unable to speak for yourself due to an illness, your health care
providers may be unclear as to what type of care you would like.

A health care agent is someone you choose to make health care decisions for
you when you cannot.

## What is a Health Care Agent?

A health care agent is also called a health care proxy. This person will act
only when you are not able to.

## Why Have a Health Care Agent?

Your family members may be uncertain or disagree about the type of medical
care you should receive. Decisions about your medical care may then be made by
doctors, hospital administrators, a court-appointed guardian, or judges.

A health care agent, chosen by you, can help your providers, family, and
friends make decisions during a stressful time.

Your agent's duty is to see that your wishes are followed. If your wishes are
not known, your agent should try to decide what you want.

Health care agents are not required, but they are the best way to be sure your
wishes for health care treatment are followed.

## What Can a Health Care Agent Do?

If you have an advance directive, also called a living will, your health care
agent can make sure your wishes are followed. Your agent's choices come before
anyone else's wishes for you.

If you do not have a living will or an advanced directive, your health care
agent will be the one to help your providers make important choices.

Your health care agent _has no control over your money_. Your agent also
cannot be made to pay your bills.

What a health care agent can and cannot do differs by state. Check your state
laws. In most states, health care agents can:

    * Choose or refuse life-sustaining and other medical treatment on your behalf
    * Agree to and then stop treatment if your health does not improve
    * Access and release your medical records
    * Request an autopsy and donate your organs, unless you have stated otherwise in your advance directive 

Before you choose a health care agent, you should find out whether your state
allows a health care agent to do the following:

    * Refuse or withdraw life-enhancing care.
    * Refuse or stop tube feeding or other life-sustaining care. Even if you have not stated on your advance directive that you do not want these treatments.
    * Order sterilization or abortion. 

## Choosing Your Health Care Agent

Choose a person who knows your treatment wishes and is willing to carry them
out. Be sure to tell your agent what is important to you.

    * You can name a family member, close friend, minister, priest, or rabbi.
    * You should name only one person as your agent.
    * Name one or two other people as backups. You need a backup person in case your first choice can't be reached when needed. 

Talk to each person you are thinking of naming as your agent or alternate. Do
this before you decide who should carry out your wishes. Your agent should be:

    * An adult, 18 years or older
    * Someone you trust and can talk to about the care you want and what is important to you
    * Someone who supports your treatment choices 

In many states, your agent cannot be:

    * Your doctor or another provider
    * An employee of your doctor or of a hospital, nursing home or hospice program where you receive care, even if the person is a trusted family member 

## What You Need to Do

Think of your beliefs about life-sustaining treatment, which is the use of
equipment to prolong your life when your body organs stop working well.

A health care proxy is a legal paper that you fill out. You can get a form
online, at your doctor's office, hospital, or senior citizen centers.

    * In the form you will list the name of your health care agent, and any backups.
    * Many states require witness signatures on the form.

A health care proxy is not a living will. A living will is a written statement
that can include your health care wishes. Unlike a living will, the health
care proxy allows you to name a health care agent to carry out those wishes if
you cannot.

You can change your mind about health care choices at any time. If you do
change your mind or if your health changes, talk to your doctor. Be sure to
tell your health care agent about any changes in your wishes.

## Alternative Names

Durable power of attorney for health care; Health care proxy; End-of-life -
health care agent; Life support treatment - health care agent; Respirator -
health care agent; Ventilator - health care agent; Power of attorney - health
care agent; POA - health care agent; DNR - health care agent; Advance
directive - health care agent; Do-not-resuscitate - health care agent; Living
will - health care agent

## References

Fabiny A, Sabatino C. Living Wills: A Guide to Advance Directives, the Health
Care Power of Attorney, and Other Key Documents. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Health
Publications; 2013.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

Zorowitz RA. Ethics. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD, Warshaw GA, et al, eds. _Ham's
Primary Care Geriatrics: A Case-Based Approach_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 7.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Advance Directives

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

