Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000468.htm    
                                Description: Sometimes after injury or a long illness, the main organs of the body no longer work properly without support. Your health care provider may tell you that these organs will not repair themselves.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deciding about treatments that prolong life

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000468.htm

# Deciding about treatments that prolong life

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sometimes after injury or a long illness, the main organs of the body no
longer work properly without support. Your health care provider may tell you
that these organs will not repair themselves.

Medical care to prolong life can keep you alive when these organs stop working
well. The treatments extend your life, but do not cure your illness. These are
called life-sustaining treatments.

## Life-sustaining Treatments

Treatments to extend life can include the use of machines. This equipment does
the work of the body organ, such as:

    * A machine to help with breathing (ventilator)
    * A machine to help your kidneys (dialysis)
    * A tube into your stomach to provide food (nasogastric or gastrostomy tube)
    * A tube into your vein to provide fluids and medicines (intravenous, IV tube)
    * A tube or mask to supply oxygen

## Making the Decision for Yourself

If you are near the end of your life or you have an illness that will not
improve, you can choose what kind of treatment you want to receive.

You should know that the illness or the injury is the main cause of the end of
life, not the removal of life support equipment.

To help with your decision:

    * Talk to your providers to learn about life support care you are receiving or may need in the future.
    * Learn about the treatments and how they would benefit you.
    * Learn about side effects or problems the treatments might cause.
    * Think about the quality of life you value.
    * Ask your provider what happens if life support care is stopped or you choose not to start a treatment.
    * Find out if you will have more pain or discomfort if you stop life support care. 

These can be hard choices for you and those close to you. There is no hard and
fast rule about what to choose. People's opinions and choices often change
over time.

## Making Your Wishes Known

To make sure your wishes are followed:

    * Talk to your providers about your choices.
    * Write your decisions in an advance health care directive.
    * Find out about a do-not-resuscitate (DNR) order.
    * Ask someone to be your health care agent or proxy. Be sure this person knows your wishes and if you make any changes in your health care choices. 

As your life or health changes, you may also change your health care
decisions. You can change or cancel an advanced care directive at any time.

## Making the Decision for a Loved one

You may serve as a health care agent or proxy for someone else. In this role
you may have to make the decision to start or remove life support machines. It
is a very hard decision to make.

If you need to make a decision about stopping treatment for a loved one:

    * Talk to your loved one's providers.
    * Review the goals of your loved one's medical care.
    * Weigh the benefits and burdens of treatments on your loved one's health.
    * Think about your loved one's wishes and values.
    * Seek advice from other health care professionals, such as a social worker.
    * Seek advice from other family members. 

## Alternative Names

Palliative care - treatments that prolong life; Palliative care - life
support; End-of-life-treatments that prolong life; Ventilator - treatments
that prolong life; Respirator - treatments that prolong life; Life-support -
treatments that prolong life; Cancer - treatments that prolong life

## References

Arnold R. Care of dying patients and their families. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 3.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Advance Directives
    * End of Life Issues

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

