Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000472.htm    
                                Description: When you are very ill or injured, you may not be able to make health care choices for yourself. If you are unable to speak for yourself, your health care providers may be unclear as to what type of care    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Advance care directives

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000472.htm

# Advance care directives

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you are very ill or injured, you may not be able to make health care
choices for yourself. If you are unable to speak for yourself, your health
care providers may be unclear as to what type of care you would prefer. Your
family members may be uncertain or disagree about the type of medical care you
should receive. An advance care directive is a legal document that tells your
providers what care you agree to in advance of this type of situation.

## Why Write an Advance Directive?

With an advance care directive, you can tell your providers what medical
treatment you do not want to have and what treatment you want no matter how
ill you are.

Writing an advance care directive may be hard. You need to:

    * Know and understand your treatment options.
    * Decide future treatment options you may want.
    * Discuss your choices with your family. 

## Living Wills

A living will explains the care you do or do not want. In it, you can state
your wishes about receiving:

    * CPR (if your breathing stops or your heart stops beating)
    * Feedings through a tube into a vein (IV) or into your stomach
    * Extended care on a breathing machine
    * Tests, medicines, or surgeries
    * Blood transfusions 

Each state has laws about living wills. You can find out about the laws in
your state from your providers, the state law organization, and most
hospitals.

You should also know that:

    * A living will is not the same as a last will and testament after a person's death.
    * You are not able to name someone to make health care decisions for you in a living will. 

## Other Types of Advance Directives

Other types of advance directives include:

    *  **Special health care power of attorney** is a legal document that allows you to name someone else (a health care agent or proxy) to make health care decisions for you when you cannot. It does not give power to anyone to make legal or financial decisions for you.
    * A **do-not-resuscitate order (DNR)** is a document that tells providers not to do CPR if your breathing stops or your heart stops beating. Your provider talks to you, the proxy, or family about this choice. The provider writes the order on your medical chart.
    * Fill out an **organ donation card** and carry it in your wallet. Keep a second card with your important papers. You can find out about organ donation from your provider. You can also have this choice listed on your driver's license.
    *  **Verbal instructions** are your choices about care that you tell providers or family members. Verbal wishes usually replace those you made previously in writing. 

## Additional Information

Write your living will or health care power of attorney according to your
state's laws.

    * Give copies to your family members, providers, and health care agent.
    * Carry a copy with you in your wallet or the glove compartment of your car.
    * Take a copy with you if you are in a hospital. Tell all medical staff involved in your care about these documents. 

You can change your decisions at any time. Be sure to tell everyone involved,
family members, proxies, and providers, if you make changes to your advance
directive or a living will is changed. Copy, save, and share the new documents
with them.

## Alternative Names

Living will; Power of attorney; DNR - advance directive; Do not resuscitate -
advance directive; Do-not-resuscitate - advance directive; Durable power of
attorney - advance care directive; POA - advance care directive; Health care
agent - advance care directive; Health care proxy - advance care directive;
End-of-life-advance care directive; Life-support - advance care directive

## Images

    * ![Medical power of attorney](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9619t.jpg)Medical power of attorney

## References

Fabiny A, Sabatino C. Living Wills: A Guide to Advance Directives, the Health
Care Power of Attorney, and Other Key Documents. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Health
Publications; 2013.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

Zorowitz RA. Ethics. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD, Warshaw GA, Potter JF, Flaherty E,
eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics: A Case-Based Approach_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 7.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Advance Directives

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

