Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000756.htm    
                                Description: Time out is a parenting technique to encourage children to stop doing things that you do not want them to do. When your child misbehaves, you can calmly remove your child from the activity and put them    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Time outs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000756.htm

# Time outs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Time out is a parenting technique to encourage children to stop doing things
that you do not want them to do. When your child misbehaves, you can calmly
remove your child from the activity and put them in time out. Your child
usually will stop doing the behavior to avoid going into time out. Time out is
mostly effective with children, 2 to 12 years old.

## Why Does Time Out Work?

When you put children in time out, you show them with action that you do not
like their behaviors. It works better than shouting, threatening, or spanking.

Time out removes your child from the behavior. It gives you and your child
time to calm down and get control over yourself. Children in time out also
have time to think about what they did.

## Using Time Out

Pick one or two behaviors you really want to work on with your child. Use time
out consistently with these behaviors. Take care not to overuse time out. Only
use it for a behavior you really want to stop.

Let children know ahead of time that you will be using time out. For instance,
tell them, "Next time you are fighting over toys, everyone is going in a time
out for 3 minutes. I will tell you when 3 minutes is up."

Choose a place ahead of time. Make sure it is a boring spot away from the TV
and toys. It should not be a place that is dark or scary. If your children are
young, make sure you can see them. Some places that might work include:

    * A chair in the hallway
    * The corner of the room
    * The bedroom
    * A crib 

When children misbehave, give them a warning to stop. Tell them, "No hitting.
That hurts. If you don't stop hitting, you will have a time out."

    * When children stop misbehaving, praise them for controlling their behavior.
    * When children do not stop misbehaving, tell them to go in time out. Only say it once: "Hitting hurts. You need a time out." 

Be clear and calm. Do not lose your temper. When you yell and nag, you give
your children's bad behavior too much attention.

Some children may go into time out as soon as you tell them to. When children
do not go on their own, lead them or carry them to the time out spot. Do not
yell or spank on the way to time out.

Put your child in time out for 1 minute per year of age, but no longer than 5
minutes. For example, if your child is 3 years old, time out is for 3 minutes.

Older children can be told they are in time out until they are ready to return
to their activity and behave. Because they decide when they are ready, they
learn to control their behavior.

If your children do not stay in their time out spots, gently hold them there.
Do not talk to them or give them any attention.

If you set a timer and your child makes noise or misbehaves in time out, reset
the timer. If the child wanders away, lead the child back to the spot and
reset the timer. The child must be quiet and well-behaved until the timer goes
off.

When time out is over, let children return to their activities. Do not lecture
about the bad behavior. Children eventually get the message with the time out.

## References

American Academy of Family Physicians website. What you can do to change your
child's behavior. familydoctor.org/what-you-can-do-to-change-your-childs-
behavior. Updated June 13, 2019. Accessed July 23, 2019.

American Academy of Pediatrics website. What's the best way to discipline my
child? www.healthychildren.org/English/family-life/family-
dynamics/communication-discipline/Pages/Disciplining-Your-Child.aspx. Updated
November 11, 2018. Accessed July 23, 2019.

Carter RG, Feigelman S. The preschool years. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 24.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Parenting

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

