Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000505.htm    
                                Description: Alcohol use is not just an adult problem. Most American high school seniors have had an alcoholic drink within the past month.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Talking to your teen about drinking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000505.htm

# Talking to your teen about drinking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcohol use is not just an adult problem. Most American high school seniors
have had an alcoholic drink within the past month.

The best time to begin talking with your teen about drugs and alcohol is now.
Children as young as 9 years old may become curious about drinking and they
may try alcohol.

## Teens and Alcohol use

About 1 in 5 teens are considered problem drinkers. This means they:

    * Get drunk
    * Have accidents related to drinking
    * Get into trouble with the law, their families, friends, schools, or people they date because of their drinking

## By Saying Nothing, You are Saying Something

Saying nothing to your children about drinking may give them the message that
teen drinking is OK. Most children choose not to drink because their parents
talk with them about it.

The best way for your children to be comfortable talking with you about
drinking is to be honest and direct. You may want to prepare and think about
what you will say ahead of time.

Tell your child how you feel about them possibly using alcohol. Once you have
started talking with your teenager, continue to bring it up at times when you
are talking about related issues.

## Free and Curious

Puberty and the teenage years are a time of change. Your child may have just
started high school or may have just gotten a driver's license. Your children
may have a sense of freedom they never had before.

Teenagers are curious. They want to explore and do things their own way. But
pressure to fit in might make it hard to resist alcohol if it seems like
everyone else is trying it.

When talking with your teen:

    * Encourage your teen to talk to you about drinking. Remain calm when listening and try not to judge or criticize. Make it comfortable for your teen to talk honestly.
    * Let your child know you understand that taking chances is a normal part of growing up.
    * Remind your teen that drinking comes with serious risks.
    * Emphasize that your teen should never drink and drive or ride with a driver who has been drinking. 

## How Problems at Home Might Influence Children to Drink

Risky drinking or alcohol use in the home can lead to the same habits in
children. At an early age, children become aware of the drinking patterns of
their parents.

Children are more likely to drink if:

    * Conflict is present between parents or caregivers
    * Parents are having money problems or are stressed from work
    * Abuse is occurring at home or the home does not feel safe in other ways 

If alcohol use runs in the family, it is very important to talk with your
child. DO NOT keep secrets. Your child should know what the risks of drinking
are. Talk honestly about how drinking has affected family members and talk
about the effects of alcohol on your own life.

Set a good example by drinking responsibly. If you have a problem with alcohol
use, get help quitting.

## Get Help for Your Child

If you think your child is drinking but will not talk with you about it, get
help. Your child's health care provider may be a good place to start. Other
resources include:

    * Local hospitals
    * Public or private mental health agencies
    * Counselors at your child's school
    * Student health centers
    * Programs such as Alateen, part of the Al-Anon program -- al-anon.org/for-members/group-resources/alateen

## Alternative Names

Alcohol use - teenager; Alcohol abuse - teenager; Problem drinking - teenager;
Alcoholism - teenager; Underage drinking - teenager

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Substance-related and addictive disorders.
_Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington,
VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:481-590.

Kogan SM. The role of parents and families in preventing young adult alcohol
use. _J Adolesc Health_. 2017;61(2):127-128. PMID: 28734320
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28734320.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol screening
and brief intervention for youth: a practitioner's guide.
pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/Practitioner/YouthGuide/YouthGuide.pdf.
Updated October 2015. Accessed May 15, 2018.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Parenting
    * Underage Drinking

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

