Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002207.htm    
                                Description: &quot;Time out&quot; is a technique some parents and teachers use when a child misbehaves. It involves the child leaving the environment and activities where the inappropriate behavior occurred, and going to a specific    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Time out

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002207.htm

# Time out

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

"Time out" is a technique some parents and teachers use when a child
misbehaves. It involves the child leaving the environment and activities where
the inappropriate behavior occurred, and going to a specific place for a set
amount of time. During time out, the child is expected to be quiet and think
about their behavior.

Time out is an effective disciplinary technique that does not use physical
punishment. Professionals report that NOT physically punishing children may
help them learn that physical violence or inflicting physical pain does NOT
bring desired results.

Children learn to avoid time out by stopping the behaviors that have caused
time outs, or warnings of time outs, in the past.

## Information

HOW TO USE TIME OUT

    1. Find a place in your home that will be suitable for time out. A chair in the hallway or a corner will work. It should be a place that is not too closed-off, dark, or scary. It should also be a place that has no potential for fun, such as in front of a TV or in a play area.
    2. Get a timer that makes a loud noise, and establish the amount of time to be spent in time out. It is generally recommended to do 1 minute per year of age, but no more than 5 minutes.
    3. Once your child shows bad behavior, explain clearly what the unacceptable behavior is, and tell your child to stop it. Warn them what will happen if they don't stop the behavior -- sitting in the chair for a time out. Be ready with praise if your child stops the behavior.
    4. If the behavior does not stop, tell your child to go to time out. Tell them why -- make sure they understand the rules. Only say it once, and do not lose your temper. By yelling and nagging, you are giving your child (and the behavior) too much attention. You may guide your child to the time out spot with as much physical force as necessary (even picking your child up and placing them in the chair). Never spank or physically hurt your child. If your child will not stay in the chair, hold them from behind. Do not speak, as this is giving them attention.
    5. Set the timer. If your child makes noise or misbehaves, reset the timer. If they get off the time-out chair, lead them back to the chair and reset the timer. The child must be quiet and well-behaved until the timer goes off.
    6. After the timer rings, your child may get up and resume activities. Do not hold a grudge -- let the issue go. Since your child has done the time out, there is no need to continue to discuss the bad behavior.

## Images

    * ![Time out](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9974t.jpg)Time out

## References

Carter RG, Feigelman S. The preschool years. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 24.

Walter HJ, DeMaso DR. Disruptive, impulse-control, and conduct disorders. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 42.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parenting](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Parenting_thumb.jpg)Parenting
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

