Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007461.htm    
                                Description: Sexual assault is any type of sexual activity or contact that occurs without your consent. This includes rape (forced penetration) and unwanted sexual touching.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sexual assault - prevention

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007461.htm

# Sexual assault - prevention

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sexual assault is any type of sexual activity or contact that occurs without
your consent. This includes rape (forced penetration) and unwanted sexual
touching.

Sexual assault is always the fault of the perpetrator (person committing the
assault). It is not only up to women to prevent sexual assault. Sexual abuse
prevention is the responsibility of all individuals within the community.

You can take steps to stay safe, while enjoying an active and social life. The
key is to learn more about the issue and follow practical tips to protect
yourself and your friends.

## Information

According to health experts, we all have a role to play in helping to prevent
sexual assault. Everyone should take steps to work against sexual violence in
the community.

 **Speak up.** If you hear someone making light of sexual violence or
condoning it, speak up. If you see someone being harassed or assaulted, call
the police right away.

 **Help create a safe workplace or school environment.** Â Ask about workplace
or school programs that deal with sexual harassment or assault. Know where to
go to report harassment or violence against yourself or others.

 **Offer support.** If you know a friend or family member who is in an abusive
relationship, offer your support. Put them in touch with local organizations
that can help.

 **Teach your children.** Tell children that they get to decide who can touch
them and where - even family members. Let them know they can always come to
you if someone touches them inappropriately. Teach children to respect others
and to treat other people the way they would like to be treated.

 **Teach teens about consent.** Make sure teens understand that any sexual
contact or activity needs to be agreed to by both people freely, willingly,
and clearly. Do this before they start dating.

WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP KEEP FRIENDS SAFE

Bystander intervention is safely stepping in and taking action when you see
someone at risk for sexual assault. RAINN (Rape, Abuse, and Incest National
Network) has these 4 steps for how to help someone at risk, while protecting
your own safety.

 **Create a distraction.** This may be as simple as interrupting a
conversation or offering food or drinks at a party.

 **Ask directly.** Ask if the person at risk if they are in trouble and need
help.

 **Refer to an authority.** It may be safest to talk with an authority figure
who can help. Enlist help from a security guard, bar bouncer, employee, or RA.
If needed, call 911 or your local emergency number.

 **Enlist other people.** You don't have to and probably should not take
action alone. Have a friend come along with you to ask the person if they are
OK. Or ask someone else to intervene if you feel they might be able to do so
safely. Approach friends of the person at risk to see if they can help.

WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP KEEP YOURSELF SAFE

It's not possible to completely protect against sexual assault. However, it's
important to know what steps you can take to keep yourself safe.

When out by yourself:

    * Trust your instincts. If something doesn't feel right, try to remove yourself from the situation. It's OK to lie or make excuses if it will help you get away.
    * Avoid being alone with people you do not know or do not trust.
    * Be aware of where you are and what is around you. When you are out, do not cover both of your ears with music headphones.
    * Keep your cell phone charged and with you. If needed, make sure you have cash or credit cards for a cab ride home.
    * Stay away from deserted areas.
    * Try to appear strong, confident, aware, and secure in your surroundings.

At parties or in other social situations, here are some common sense steps to
take:

    * Go with a group of friends, if possible, or keep in contact with someone you know during the party. Keep an eye out for one another, and don't leave anyone alone at a party.
    * Avoid drinking too much. Know your limits and keep track of how much you are drinking. Open your own beverages. Do not accept drinks from someone you do not know and keep your drink or beverage close to you. Someone could drug your drink, and you would not be able to tell because you can't smell or taste date-rape drinks.
    * If you think you have been drugged, tell a friend and leave the party or situation and get help right away.
    * Do not go somewhere alone or leave a party with someone you do not know or feel comfortable with.
    * Get to know someone well before spending time alone together. Spend the first few dates in public places.
    * If you are with someone you know and your instincts tell you something is wrong, trust your feelings and get away from the person.

If you find yourself in a situation where you are being pressured into sexual
activities you do not want, things you can do include:

    * State clearly what you do not want to do. Remember, you do not have to do something you are not comfortable doing.
    * Remain aware of your surroundings and how you can get away if needed.
    * Create a special code word or sentence you can use with a friend or family member. You can call them and say it if you are being pressured into unwanted sex.
    * If you need to, make up a reason why you need to leave.

You may want to consider taking a self-defense class. This may boost your
self-confidence and provide useful skills and strategies for different
situations.

RESOURCES

Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network -- www.rainn.org.

WomensHealth.gov:Â www.womenshealth.gov/relationships-and-safety

## Alternative Names

Sexual assault - prevention; Rape - prevention; Date rape - prevention

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Sexual assault and abuse
and STDs. www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/sexual-assault.htm. Updated January 25, 2017.
Accessed February 15, 2018.

Cowley DS, Lentz GM. Emotional aspects of gynecology: depression, anxiety,
posttraumatic stress disorder, eating disorders, substance use disorders,
"difficult" patients, sexual function, rape, intimate partner violence, and
grief. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Hollander JA. Does self-defense training prevent sexual violence against
women? _Violence Against Women_. 2014 Mar;20(3):252-269. Â

Linden JA, Riviello RJ. Sexual assault. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 58.

## Review Date 10/3/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman
crying](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualAssault_thumb.jpg)Sexual Assault
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

