Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000870.htm    
                                Description: The cost of health care continues to rise. That is why it helps to learn how to take steps to limit your out-of-pocket health care costs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eight ways to cut your health care costs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000870.htm

# Eight ways to cut your health care costs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The cost of health care continues to rise. That is why it helps to learn how
to take steps to limit your out-of-pocket health care costs.

Learn how to save money and still receive the care you need. Start by looking
at your plan information so you know what services are available. Try the tips
below to help you get the most from your benefits and save money on your care.

 **1\. Save Money on Medicines**

There are a few ways to cut costs on your medicines.

    * Ask your health care provider if you can switch to generic medicines. They have the same active ingredient, but cost less than brand name drugs.
    * Ask your provider if there is a less expensive medicine that treats the same condition.
    * See if you can order your medicine through the mail.
    * Take all of your medicines as directed. Not taking your medicine or not taking enough medicine may lead to further health problems.

 **2\. Use Your Benefits**

    * Get routine health screenings. These tests can catch health problems early, when they may be more easily treated. And you often do not have to pay a copay for health screenings, vaccines, and annual well visits.
    * Get prenatal care if you are pregnant. This is the best way to ensure you and your baby will be healthy.
    * Some health plans offer health advocates or case managers. A health advocate can help you get the most of your benefits. A case manager can help you to manage complex health problems such as diabetes or asthma.
    * Use free and discounted services. Many health plans offer discounts on things like gym memberships or eyewear.

 **3\. Plan Ahead for Urgent and Emergency Care**

When an illness or injury occurs, you need to decide how serious it is and how
soon to get medical care. This will help you choose whether to call your
provider, go to an urgent care clinic, or get emergency care.

You can decide where to get care by thinking about how quickly you need care.

    * If a person or unborn baby could die or have permanent harm, it is an emergency. Examples include chest pain, trouble breathing, or severe pain or bleeding.
    * If you need care that cannot wait until the next day to see your provider, you need urgent care. Examples of urgent care include strep throat, bladder infection, or a dog bite.

You will save both time and money if you use an urgent care center or see your
provider rather than going to the emergency department. Plan ahead by knowing
which urgent care center is near you. Also, learn how to recognize an
emergency in adults and in a child.

 **4\. Ask About Outpatient Facilities**

If you need a procedure or surgery, ask your provider if you can have it done
at an outpatient clinic. Often, getting care at a clinic is cheaper than
having the same procedure in a hospital.

 **5\. Choose In-Network Health Care Providers**

Depending on your health coverage, you may have the choice to see providers
who are in-network or out-of-network. You pay less to see providers who are
in-network, because they have a contract with your health plan. This means
they charge lower rates.

 **6\. Take Care of Your Health**

A simple way to save money on health care is to stay healthy. Of course, that
is sometimes easier said than done. But staying at a healthy weight, getting
regular exercise, and not smoking lowers your risk for health problems.
Staying healthy helps you avoid costly tests and treatments for ongoing
conditions such as diabetes or heart disease.

 **7\. Choose a Health Plan That is Right for You.**

When choosing a plan, think about the health needs of you and your family. If
you pick a plan with higher premiums, more of your health costs will be
covered. This may be a good idea if you have a health problem, such as
diabetes, and need regular care. If you rarely need medical care, then you may
want to choose a plan with a higher deductible. You will pay lower monthly
premiums and likely save money overall. Also compare prescription drug
coverage.

 **8\. Use a Health Care Savings Account (HSA) or Flexible Spending Account
(FSA)**

Many employers offer an HSA or FSA. These are savings accounts that allow you
to set aside pre-tax money for health care expenses. This can help you save
several hundred dollars per year. HSAs are owned by you, earn interest, and
can be transferred to a new employer. FSAs are owned by your employer, do not
earn interest, and must be used within the calendar year.

## References

American Board of Internal Medicine (AMBI) Foundation. Choosing wisely:
patient resources. www.choosingwisely.org/patient-resources. Accessed August
13, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. CDC prevention checklist.
www.cdc.gov/prevention/index.html. Updated May 31, 2017. Accessed August 13,
2018.

Healthcare.gov website. US Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
Preventive health services. www.healthcare.gov/coverage/preventive-care-
benefits. Accessed August 13, 2018.

US Preventive Services Task force. Browse information for consumers.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Tools/ConsumerInfo/Index/information-
for-consumers. Updated August 2018. Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Financial Assistance

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

