Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000429.htm    
                                Description: A patient    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulling a patient up in bed

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000429.htm

# Pulling a patient up in bed

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A patient's body may slowly slide when the person is in bed for a long time.
The person may ask to be moved up higher for comfort or may need to be moved
up so a health care provider can do an exam.

## Avoiding Injury

You must move or pull someone up in bed the right way to avoid injuring the
patient's shoulders and skin. Using the right method will also help protect
your back.

It takes at least 2 people to safely move a patient up in bed.

Friction from rubbing can scrape or tear the person's skin. Common areas at
risk for friction are the shoulders, back, buttocks, elbows, and heels.

Never move patients up by grabbing them under their arms and pulling. This can
injure their shoulders.

## Preparing to Move the Patient

A slide sheet is the best way to prevent friction. If you do not have one, you
can make a draw sheet out of a bed sheet folded in half. Follow these steps to
prepare the patient:

    1. Tell the patient what you are doing.
    2. If you can, raise the bed to a level that reduces the strain on your back.
    3. Make the bed flat.
    4. Roll the patient to one side, then place a half rolled-up slide sheet or draw sheet against the person's back.
    5. Roll the patient onto the sheet and spread the sheet out flat under the person.
    6. Make sure the head, shoulders, and hips are on the sheet. 

## Pulling up

The goal is to pull, not lift, the patient toward the head of the bed. The 2
people moving the patient should stand on opposite sides of the bed. To pull
the person up both people should:

    1. Grab the slide sheet or draw sheet at the patients upper back and hips on the side of the bed closest to you.
    2. Put one foot forward as you prepare to move the patient. Put your weight on your back leg.
    3. On the count of three, move the patient by shifting your weight to your front leg and pulling the sheet toward the head of the bed.
    4. You may need to do this more than once to get the person in the right position. 

If using a slide sheet, make sure to remove it when you are done.

If the patient can help you, ask the patient to:

    * Bring the chin up to the chest and bend the knees. The patient's heels should remain on the bed.
    * Have the patient push with the heels while you pull up.Â 

## Alternative Names

Moving a patient in bed

## References

American Red Cross. Assisting with positioning and transferring. In: American
Red Cross. _American Red Cross Nurse Assistant Training Textbook_. 3rd ed.
American National Red Cross; 2013:chap 13.

Craig M. Essentials of patient care for the sonographer. In: Hagen-Ansert S,
ed. _Textbook of Diagnostic Sonography_. 8th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby;
2018:chap 2.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Body mechanics and
positioning. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 11/15/2017

Updated by: Jennifer K. Mannheim, ARNP, Medical Staff, Department of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Health, Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, WA.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Caregivers

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

