Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000427.htm    
                                Description: Some patients cannot safely leave their beds to bathe. For these people, daily bed baths can help keep their skin healthy, control odor, and increase comfort. If moving the patient causes pain, plan to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bathing a patient in bed

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000427.htm

# Bathing a patient in bed

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some patients cannot safely leave their beds to bathe. For these people, daily
bed baths can help keep their skin healthy, control odor, and increase
comfort. If moving the patient causes pain, plan to give the patient a bed
bath after the person has received pain medicine and it has taken affect.

Encourage the patient to be involved as possible in bathing themselves.

A bed bath is a good time to inspect a patient's skin for redness and sores.
Pay special attention to skin folds and bony areas when checking.

## Supplies for a Bed Bath

You will need:

    * Large bowl of warm water
    * Soap (regular or non-rinse soap)
    * Two washcloths or sponges
    * Dry towel
    * Lotion
    * Shaving supplies, if you are planning to shave the patient
    * Comb or other hair care products 

If you wash the patient's hair, use either a dry shampoo that combs out or a
basin that is designed for washing hair in bed. This kind of basin has a tube
in the bottom that allows you to keep the bed dry before you later drain the
water.

## How to Give a Bed Bath

The following steps should be followed when giving a bed bath:

    1. Bring all the supplies you will need to the patient's bedside. Raise the bed to a comfortable height to prevent straining your back.
    2. Explain to the patient that you are about to give them a bed bath.
    3. Make sure you uncover only the area of the body you are washing. This will keep the person from getting too cold. It also provides privacy.
    4. While the patient is lying on their back, begin by washing their face and move toward their feet. Then, roll your patient to one side and wash their back.
    5. To wash a patient's skin, first wet the skin, then gently apply a small amount of soap. Check with the patient to make sure the temperature is okay and you are not rubbing too hard.
    6. Make sure you rinse all the soap off, then pat the area dry. Apply lotion before covering the area up.
    7. Bring fresh, warm water to the patient's bedside with a clean washcloth to wash private areas. First wash the genitals, then move toward the buttocks, always washing from front to back.

## Alternative Names

Bed bath; Sponge bath

## References

American Red Cross. Assisting with personal cleanliness and grooming. In:
American Red Cross. _American Red Cross Nurse Assistant Training Textbook_.
3rd ed. American National Red Cross; 2013:chap 13.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Bathing, bedmaking,
and maintaining skin integrity. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L,
Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed.
New York, NY: Pearson; 2017:chap 8.

Timby BK. Assisting with basic needs. In: Timby BK, ed. _Fundamentals of
nursing skills and concepts_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Wolters Kluwer
Health: Lippincott Williams & Wilkens. 2013: unit 5.

## Review Date 11/15/2017

Updated by: Jennifer K. Mannheim, ARNP, Medical Staff, Department of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Health, Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, WA.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Caregivers

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

