

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Case Count Map

Multistate Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter
Manufactured by nSpired Natural Foods, Inc. (Final Update)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted October 16, 2014 4:30 PM ET

This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled nut butter products
have a long shelf life and may still be in people's homes. Consumers unaware
of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick.
Read the Advice to Consumers.

  

## Final Case Count Map

#### Persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Braenderup, by
state

![Final Case Count Map: Persons infected with the outbreak strain of
Salmonella Braenderup, by
state](/salmonella/braenderup-08-14/images/101614-map.jpg)

*n=6 for whom information was reported as of October 16, 2014

A total of 6 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Braenderup were reported from 5 states. The number of ill persons identified
in each state was as follows: Connecticut (1), Iowa (1), New Mexico (1),
Tennessee (1), and Texas (2).

### Previous Case Count Maps

#### August 20, 2014

#### Persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Braenderup, by
state

![Case Count Maps August 20, 2014: Persons infected with the outbreak strain
of Salmonella Braenderup, by
state](/salmonella/braenderup-08-14/images/082114-map.jpg)

*n=4 for whom information was reported as of August 20, 2014

A total of 4 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_
Braenderup have been reported from 4 states. The number of ill persons
identified in each state is as follows: Connecticut (1), Iowa (1), Tennessee
(1), and Texas (1).

Read the full Outbreak Investigation

Page last reviewed: October 16, 2014

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

