Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000426.htm    
                                Description: Changing a patient    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Turning patients over in bed

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000426.htm

# Turning patients over in bed

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Changing a patient's position in bed every 2 hours helps keep blood flowing.
This helps the skin stay healthy and prevents bedsores.

Turning a patient is a good time to check the skin for redness and sores.

## Getting a Patient Ready

The following steps should be followed:

    1. Explain to the patient what you are planning to do so the person knows what to expect. Encourage the person to help you if possible.
    2. Stand on the opposite side of the bed the patient will be turning towards, and lower the bed rail. Move the patient towards you, then put the side rail back up.
    3. Step around to the other side of the bed and lower the side rail. Ask the patient to look towards you. This will be the direction in which the person is turning.
    4. The patient's bottom arm should be stretched towards you. Place the person's top arm across the chest.
    5. Cross the patient's upper ankle over the bottom ankle.Â 

If you are turning the patient onto the stomach, make sure the person's bottom
hand is above the head first.

## Turning a Patient

The following steps should be followed when turning a patient:

    1. If you can, raise the bed to a level that reduces back strain for you. Make the bed flat.
    2. Get as close to the person as you can. You may need to put a knee on the bed to get close enough to the patient.
    3. Place one of your hands on the patient's shoulder and your other hand on the hip.
    4. Standing with one foot ahead of the other, shift your weight to your front foot (or knee if you put your knee on the bed) as you gently pull the patient's shoulder toward you. Then shift your weight to your back foot as you gently pull the person's hip toward you.

You may need to repeat steps 3 and 4 until the patient is in the right
position.

## When the Patient is in the Right Position

The following steps should be followed to make sure the patient is in the
right position:

    1. Make sure the patient's ankles, knees, and elbows are not resting on top of each other.
    2. Make sure the head and neck are in line with the spine, not stretched forward, back, or to the side.
    3. Return the bed to a comfortable position with the side rails up. Check with the patient to make sure the patient is comfortable. Use pillows as needed. 

## Alternative Names

Roll patients in bed

## References

American Red Cross. Assisting with positioning and transferring. In: American
Red Cross. _American Red Cross Nurse Assistant Training Textbook_. 3rd ed.
American National Red Cross; 2013:chap.12.

Qaseem A, Mir TP, Starkey M, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the
American College of Physicians. Risk assessment and prevention of pressure
ulcers: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians.
_Ann Intern Med_. 2015;162(5):359-369. PMID: 25732278
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25732278.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Body mechanics and
positioning. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 11/15/2017

Updated by: Jennifer K. Mannheim, ARNP, Medical Staff, Department of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Health, Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, WA.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Caregivers

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

