Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000880.htm    
                                Description: A patient portal is a website for your personal health care. The online tool helps you to keep track of your health care provider visits, test results, billing, prescriptions, and so on. You can also e-mail    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Patient portals - an online tool for your health

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000880.htm

# Patient portals - an online tool for your health

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A patient portal is a website for your personal health care. The online tool
helps you to keep track of your health care provider visits, test results,
billing, prescriptions, and so on. You can also e-mail your provider questions
through the portal.

Many providers now offer patient portals. For access, you will need to set up
an account. The service is free. A password is used so that all of your
information is private and secure.

## What is in a Patient Portal?

With a patient portal, you can:

    * Make appointments (non-urgent)
    * Request referrals
    * Refill prescriptions
    * Check benefits
    * Update insurance or contact information
    * Make payments to your provider's office
    * Complete forms
    * Ask questions through secure e-mail

You also may be able to view:

    * Test results
    * Visit summaries
    * Your medical history including allergies, immunizations, and medicines
    * Patient-education articles

Some portals even offer e-visits. It is like a house call. For minor issues,
such as a small wound or rash, you can get diagnosis and treatment options
online. This saves you a trip to the provider's office. E-visits cost around
$30.

## How do I use a Patient Portal?

If your provider offers a patient portal, you will need a computer and
internet connection to use it. Follow the instructions to register for an
account. Once you are in your patient portal, you can click the links to
perform basic tasks. You can also communicate with your provider's office in
the message center.

If you have a child under age 18 years, you may be given access to your
child's patient portal, too.

Providers can also get in touch with you through the portal. You may receive
reminders and alerts. You will receive an email asking you to log in to your
patient portal for a message.

## The Benefits of a Patient Portal

With a patient portal:

    * You can access your secure personal health information and be in touch with your provider's office 24 hours a day. You do not need to wait for office hours or returned phone calls to have basic issues resolved.
    * You can access all of your personal health information from all of your providers in one place. If you have a team of providers, or see specialists regularly, they can all post results and reminders in a portal. Providers can see what other treatments and advice you are getting. This can lead to better care and better management of your medicines.
    * E-mail reminders and alerts help you to remember things like annual checkups and flu shots.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Patient portals are not for urgent issues. If your need is time-sensitive, you
should still call your provider's office.

## Alternative Names

Personal health record (PHR)

## References

HealthIT.gov website. What is a patient portal? www.healthit.gov/faq/what-
patient-portal. Updated September 29, 2017. Accessed August 13, 2018.

Irizarry T, DeVito Dabbs A, Curran CR. Patient portals and patient engagement:
a state of the science review. _J Med Internet Res_. 2015;17(6):e148. PMID:
26104044 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26104044.

Lyles CR, Sarkar U, Ralston JD, et al. Patient-provider communication and
trust in relation to use of an online patient portal among diabetes patients:
The Diabetes and Aging Study. _J Am Med Inform Assoc_. 2013;20(6):1128-1131.
PMID: 23676243 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23676243.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Personal Health Records

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

