Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001554.htm    
                                Description: Suicide is the act of taking one    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Suicide and suicidal behavior

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001554.htm

# Suicide and suicidal behavior

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Suicide is the act of taking one's own life on purpose. Suicidal behavior is
any action that could cause a person to die, such as taking a drug overdose or
crashing a car on purpose.

## Causes

Suicide and suicidal behaviors usually occur in people with one or more of the
following:

    * Bipolar disorder
    * Borderline personality disorder
    * Depression
    * Drug or alcohol use
    * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
    * Schizophrenia
    * History of physical, sexual, or emotional abuse  

    * Stressful life issues, such as serious financial or relationship problems 

People who try to take their own life are often trying to get away from a
situation that seems impossible to deal with. Many who attempt suicide are
seeking relief from:

    * Feeling ashamed, guilty, or like a burden to others
    * Feeling like a victim
    * Feelings of rejection, loss, or loneliness 

Suicidal behaviors may occur when there is a situation or event that the
person finds overwhelming, such as:

    * Aging (older people have the highest rate of suicide)
    * Death of a loved one
    * Drug or alcohol use
    * Emotional trauma
    * Serious physical illness or pain
    * Unemployment or money problems 

Risk factors for suicide in teenagers include:

    * Access to guns
    * Family member who completed suicide
    * History of hurting themselves on purpose
    * History of being neglected or abused
    * Living in communities where there have been recent outbreaks of suicide in young people
    * Romantic breakup 

While men are more likely than women to die by suicide, women are twice as
likely to attempt suicide.

Most suicide attempts do not result in death. Many of these attempts are done
in a way that makes rescue possible. These attempts are often a cry for help.

Some people attempt suicide in a way that is less likely to be fatal, such as
poisoning or overdose. Men are more likely to choose violent methods, such as
shooting themselves. As a result, suicide attempts by men are more likely to
result in death.

Relatives of people who attempt or complete suicide often blame themselves or
become very angry. They may see the suicide attempt as selfish. However,
people who attempt suicide often mistakenly believe that they are doing their
friends and relatives a favor by taking themselves out of the world.

## Symptoms

Often, but not always, a person may show certain signs and behaviors before a
suicide attempt, such as:

    * Having trouble concentrating or thinking clearly
    * Giving away belongings
    * Talking about going away or the need to "get my affairs in order"
    * Suddenly changing behavior, especially calmness after a period of anxiety
    * Losing interest in activities they used to enjoy
    * Self-destructive behaviors, such as heavily drinking alcohol, using illegal drugs, or cutting their body
    * Pulling away from friends or not wanting to go out
    * Suddenly having trouble in school or work
    * Talking about death or suicide, or even saying that they want to hurt themselves
    * Talking about feeling hopeless or guilty
    * Changing sleep or eating habits
    * Arranging ways to take their own life (such as buying a gun or many pills) 

## Treatment

People who are at risk of suicidal behavior may not seek treatment for many
reasons, including:

    * They believe nothing will help
    * They do not want to tell anyone they have problems
    * They think asking for help is a sign of weakness
    * They do not know where to go for help

A person may need emergency treatment after a suicide attempt. They may need
first aid, CPR, or more intensive treatments.

People who try toÂ take their own lifeÂ may need to stay in a hospital for
treatment and to reduce the risk of future attempts. Therapy is one of the
most important parts of treatment.

Any mental health disorder that may have led to the suicide attempt should be
evaluated and treated. This includes:

    * Bipolar disorder
    * Borderline personality disorder
    * Drug or alcohol dependence
    * Major depression
    * Schizophrenia
    * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)  

Always take suicide attempts and threats seriously. If you or someone you know
is thinking about suicide, you can call the National Suicide Prevention
Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (1-800-273-TALK), where you can receive free and
confidential support anytime day or night.

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) right away if someone you know
has attempted suicide. DO NOT leave the person alone, even after you have
called for help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

About one-third of people who try to take their own life will try again within
1 year. About 10% of people who make threats or try to take their own life
will eventually kill themselves.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a health care provider right away if you or someone you know is having
thoughts of suicide. The person needs mental health care right away. DO NOT
dismiss the person as just trying to get attention.

## Prevention

Avoiding alcohol and drugs (other than prescribed medicines) can reduce the
risk of suicide.

In homes with children or teenagers:

    * Keep all prescription medicines high up and locked.
    * DO NOT keep alcohol in the home, or keep it locked up.
    * DO NOT keep guns in the home. If you do keep guns in the home, lock them and keep the bullets separate. 

In older adults, further investigate feelings of hopelessness, being a burden,
and not belonging.

Many people who try to take their own life talk about it before making the
attempt. Sometimes, just talking to someone who cares and who does not judge
them is enough to reduce the risk of suicide.

However, if you are a friend, family member, or you know someone who you think
may attempt suicide, never try to manage the problem on your own. Seek help.
Suicide prevention centers have telephone "hotline" services.

Never ignore a suicide threat or attempted suicide.

## Alternative Names

Depression - suicide; Bipolar - suicide

## Images

    * ![Depression in children](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19294t.jpg)Depression in children
    * ![Depression among the elderly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19299t.jpg)Depression among the elderly

## References

American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013.

Brendel RW, Brezing CA, Lagomasino IT, Perlis RH, Stern TA. The suicidal
patient. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 53.

DeMaso DR, Walter HJ. Suicide and attempted suicide. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum, NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics._ 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 40.

## Review Date 4/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Suicide](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Suicide_thumb.jpg)Suicide _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

