Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007225.htm    
                                Description: Neglect and emotional abuse can cause a child a lot of harm. It is often hard to see or prove this kind of abuse, so other people are less likely to help the child. When a child is being physically or    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Child neglect and emotional abuse

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007225.htm

# Child neglect and emotional abuse

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neglect and emotional abuse can cause a child a lot of harm. It is often hard
to see or prove this kind of abuse, so other people are less likely to help
the child. When a child is being physically or sexually abused, emotional
abuse is also often happening to the child.

## Symptoms

EMOTIONAL ABUSE

These are examples of emotional abuse:

    * Not providing the child with a safe environment. The child witnesses violence or severe abuse between parents or adults.
    * Threatening the child with violence or abandonment.
    * Constantly criticizing or blaming the child for problems.
    * The child's parent or caregiver does not show concern for the child, and refuses help from others for the child.

These are signs that a child may be emotionally abused. They may have any of
the following:

    * Problems in school
    * Eating disorders, leading to weight loss or poor weight gain
    * Emotional issues such as low self-esteem, depression, and anxiety
    * Extreme behavior such as acting out, trying hard to please, aggressiveness
    * Trouble sleeping
    * Vague physical complaints

CHILD NEGLECT

These are examples of child neglect:

    * Rejecting the child and not giving the child any love.
    * Not feeding the child.
    * Not dressing the child in proper clothing.
    * Not giving needed medical or dental care.
    * Leaving a child alone for a long time. This is called abandonment.

These are signs that a child may be neglected. The child may:

    * Not go to school regularly
    * Smell badly and be dirty
    * Tell you that there is no one at home to take care of them
    * Be depressed, show bizarre behavior, or use alcohol or drugs

## Treatment

WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP

If you think a child is in immediate danger because of abuse or neglect, call
911.

Call the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD
(1-800-422-4453). Crisis counselors are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week. Interpreters are available to help in 170 languages. The counselor on
the phone can help you figure out what steps to take next. All calls are
anonymous and confidential.

Counseling and support groups are available for children and for abusive
parents who want to get help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The long-term outcome depends on:

    * How severe the abuse was
    * How long the child was abused
    * The success of therapy and parenting classes

## Alternative Names

Neglect - child; Emotional abuse - child

## References

Dubowitz H, Lane WG. Abused and neglected children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

HealthyChildren.org website. Child abuse and neglect.
www.healthychildren.org/English/safety-prevention/at-home/Pages/What-to-Know-
about-Child-Abuse.aspx. Updated April 13, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

US Department of Health and Human Services, Children's Bureau website. Child
abuse & neglect. www.acf.hhs.gov/cb/focus-areas/child-abuse-neglect. Updated
August 20, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildAbuse_thumb.jpg)Child Abuse
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

