Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001552.htm    
                                Description: Child physical abuse is a serious problem. Here are some facts:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Child physical abuse

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001552.htm

# Child physical abuse

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Child physical abuse is a serious problem. Here are some facts:

    * Most children are abused at home or by someone they know. They often love this person, or are afraid of them, so theyÂ do notÂ tell anyone.
    * Child abuse can happen to a child ofÂ any race, religion, or economic status.

Other types of child abuse are:

    * Neglect and emotional abuse
    * Sexual abuse
    * Shaken baby syndrome

## Causes

CHILD PHYSICAL ABUSE

Child physical abuse is when a person physically hurts a child. The abuse is
not an accident. Here are some examples of child physical abuse:

    * Hitting and beating a child
    * Hitting a child with an object, such as a belt or a stick
    * Kicking a child
    * Burning a child with hot water, a cigarette, or an iron
    * Holding a child under water
    * Tying up a child
    * Severely shaking a baby

## Symptoms

Signs of physical abuse in a child include:

    * Sudden change in behavior or school performance
    * Alertness, watching for something bad to happen
    * Acting out behavior
    * Leaving home early, going home late, and not wanting to go home
    * Fear when approached by adults

Other signs include unexplained injuries or a strange explanation of injuries,
such as:

    * Black eyes 
    * Broken bones that cannot be explained (for example, infants whoÂ do notÂ crawl or walk usually do notÂ have broken bones)
    * Bruise marks shaped like hands, fingers, or objects (such as a belt)
    * Bruises that cannot be explained by usual child activities
    * Bulging fontanelle (soft spot) or separated sutures in an infant's skull
    * Burn marks,Â such asÂ cigarette burns
    * Choke marks around the neck
    * Circular marks around the wrists or ankles from twisting or being tied up
    * Human bite marks
    * Lash marks
    * Unexplained unconsciousness in an infant

Warning signs that an adult may be abusing a child:

    * Cannot explain or gives strange explanations for a child's injuries
    * Talks about the child in a negative way
    * Uses harsh discipline
    * Was abused as a child
    * Alcohol or drug problems
    * Emotional problems or mental illness
    * High stress
    * Does not look after the child's hygiene or care
    * Does not seem to love or have concern for the child  

## Treatment

HELP AN ABUSED CHILD

Learn about the signs of child abuse. Recognize when a child might be abused.
Get early help for abused children.

If you think a child is being abused, contact a health care provider, the
police, or child protective services in your city, county or state.

    * Call 911 for any child in immediate danger because of abuse or neglect.
    * You can also call Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD (1-800-422-4453). Crisis counselors are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreters are available to help in 170 languages. The counselor on the phone can help you figure out what steps to take next. All calls are anonymous and confidential.

GETTING HELP FOR THE CHILD AND FAMILY

The child may need medical treatment and counseling. Abused children can be
seriously hurt. Children may also have emotional problems.

Counseling and support groups are available for children and for abusive
parents who want to get help.

There are state and other government departments or agencies that are
responsible for the protection of children younger than age 18. Child
protection agencies usually decide whether the child should go into foster
care or can return home. Child protection agencies generally make every effort
to reunite families when possible. The system varies from state to state, but
usually involves a family court or a court that handles child abuse cases.

## Alternative Names

Battered child syndrome; Physical abuse - children

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Child abuse and neglect.
www.healthychildren.org/English/safety-prevention/at-home/Pages/What-to-Know-
about-Child-Abuse.aspx. Updated April 13, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Dubowitz H, Lane WG. Abused and neglected children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

Raimer SS, Raimer-Goodman L, Raimer BG. Skin signs of abuse. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 90.

US Department of Health and Human Services, Children's Bureau website. Child
abuse and neglect. www.acf.hhs.gov/cb/focus-areas/child-abuse-neglect. Updated
August 20, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildAbuse_thumb.jpg)Child Abuse
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

