Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001555.htm    
                                Description: Munchausen syndrome by proxy is a mental illness and a form of child abuse. The caretaker of a child, most often a mother, either makes up fake symptoms or causes real symptoms to make it look like the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Munchausen syndrome by proxy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001555.htm

# Munchausen syndrome by proxy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Munchausen syndrome by proxy is a mental illness and a form of child abuse.
The caretaker of a child, most often a mother, either makes up fake symptoms
or causes real symptoms to make it look like the child is sick.

## Causes

No one is sure what causes Munchausen syndrome by proxy. Sometimes, the person
was abused as a child or has Munchausen syndrome (fake illness for
themselves).

## Symptoms

The caretaker can do extreme things to fake symptoms of illness in the child.
For example, the caretaker may:

    * Add blood to the child's urine or stool
    * Withhold food so the child looks like they can't gain weight
    * Heat up thermometers so it looks like the child has a fever
    * Make up lab results
    * Give the child drugs to make the child throw up or have diarrhea
    * Infect an intravenous (IV) line to make the child sick 

What are signs in a caretaker?

    * Most people with this problem are mothers with small children. Some are adult children taking care of an older parent.
    * The caretakers often work in health care and know a lot about medical care. They can describe the child's symptoms in great medical detail. They like to be very involved with the health care team and are liked by the staff for the care they give the child.
    * These caretakers are very involved with their children. They seem devoted to the child. This makes it hard for health professionals to see a diagnosis of Munchausen syndrome by proxy. 

What are signs in a child?

    * The child sees a lot of health care providers and has been in the hospital a lot.
    * The child often has had many tests, surgeries, or other procedures.
    * The child has strange symptoms that don't fit with any disease. The symptoms do not match the test results.
    * The child's symptoms are reported by the caretaker. They are never seen by health care professionals. The symptoms are gone in the hospital, but start again when the child goes home.
    * Blood samples do not match the child's blood type.
    * Drugs or chemicals are found in the child's urine, blood, or stool. 

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose Munchausen syndrome by proxy, providers have to see the clues.
They have to review the child's medical record to see what has happened with
the child over time. Very often, Munchausen syndrome by proxy goes
undiagnosed.

## Treatment

The child needs to be protected. They may need to be removed from the direct
care of the caretaker in question.

Children may require medical care to treat complications from injuries,
infections, medicines, surgeries, or tests. They also need psychiatric care to
deal with depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder that can
happen with child abuse.

Treatment most often involves individual and family therapy. Because this is a
form of child abuse, the syndrome must be reported to the authorities.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you think a child is being abused, contact a provider, the police, or child
protective services.

Call 911 for any child in immediate danger because of abuse or neglect.

You can also call this national hotline. Crisis counselors are available 24/7.
Interpreters are available to help in 170 languages. The counselor on the
phone can help you figure out the next steps. All calls are anonymous and
confidential. Call Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline 1-800-4-A-CHILD
(1-800-422-4453).

## Prevention

Recognition of Munchausen syndrome by proxy in the child-parent relationship
can prevent continued abuse and unnecessary, expensive, and possibly dangerous
medical testing.

## Alternative Names

Factitious disorder by proxy; Child abuse - Munchausen

## References

Carrasco MM, Wolford JE. Child abuse and neglect. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.

Dubowitz H, Lane WG. Abused and neglected children. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 16.

Shapiro R, Farst K, Chervenak CL. Child abuse. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildAbuse_thumb.jpg)Child Abuse
_Read more_

![Mental
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MentalDisorder_thumb.jpg)Mental
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

