Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007578.htm    
                                Description: Shaken baby syndrome is a severe form of child abuse caused by violently shaking an infant or child.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shaken baby syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007578.htm

# Shaken baby syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shaken baby syndrome is a severe form of child abuse caused by violently
shaking an infant or child.

## Considerations

Shaken baby syndrome can occur from as little as 5 seconds of shaking.

Shaken baby injuries most often occur in children younger than 2 years old,
but may be seen in children up to 5 years old.

When an infant or toddler is shaken, the brain bounces back and forth against
the skull. This can cause bruising of the brain (cerebral contusion),
swelling, pressure, and bleeding in the brain. The large veins along the
outside of the brain may tear, leading to further bleeding, swelling, and
increased pressure. This can easily cause permanent brain damage or death.

Shaking an infant or small child may cause other injuries, such as damage to
the neck, spine, and eyes.

## Causes

In most cases, an angry parent or caregiver shakes the baby to punish or quiet
the child. Such shaking most often takes place when the infant is crying
inconsolably and the frustrated caregiver loses control. Many times the
caregiver did not intend to harm the baby. Still, it is a form of child abuse.

Injuries are most likely to happen when the baby is shaken and then the baby's
head hits something. Even hitting a soft object, such as a mattress or pillow,
may be enough to injure newborns and small infants. Children's brains are
softer, their neck muscles and ligaments are weak, and their heads are large
and heavy in proportion to their bodies. The result is a type of whiplash,
similar to what occurs in some auto accidents.

Shaken baby syndrome does not result from gentle bouncing, playful swinging or
tossing the child in the air, or jogging with the child. It also is very
unlikely to occur from accidents such as falling off chairs or down stairs, or
accidentally being dropped from a caregiver's arms. Short falls may cause
other types of head injuries, although these are often minor.

## Symptoms

The symptoms can vary, ranging from mild to severe. They may include:

    * Convulsions (seizures)
    * Decreased alertness
    * Extreme irritability or other changes in behavior
    * Lethargy, sleepiness, not smiling
    * Loss of consciousness
    * Loss of vision
    * No breathing
    * Pale or bluish skin
    * Poor feeding, lack of appetite
    * Vomiting 

There may not be any physical signs of injury, such as bruising, bleeding, or
swelling. In some cases, the condition can be difficult to diagnose and may
not be found during an office visit. However, rib fractures are common and can
be seen on x-rays.

An eye doctor may find bleeding behind the baby's eye or retinal detachment.
There are, however, other causes of bleeding behind the eye and they should be
ruled out before diagnosing shaken baby syndrome. Other factors must be
considered.

![Shaken baby symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23189.jpg)

## First Aid

Call 911 or your local emergency number. Immediate emergency treatment is
necessary.

If the child stops breathing before emergency help arrives, begin CPR.

If the child is vomiting:

    * And you do not think there is a spinal injury, turn the child's head to one side to prevent the baby from choking and breathing in vomit to the lungs (aspiration).
    * And you do think there is a spinal injury, carefully roll the child's whole body to one side at the same time (as if rolling a log) while protecting the neck to prevent choking and aspiration. 

## DO NOT

    * Do not pick up or shake the child to wake him or her up.
    * Do not attempt to give the child anything by mouth. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if a child has any of the above signs or
symptoms, regardless of how mild or severe they are. Also call if you think a
child has shaken baby syndrome.

If you think a child is in immediate danger because of neglect, you should
call 911. If you suspect that a child is being abused, report it right away.
Most states have a child abuse hotline. You may also use the Childhelp
National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-Child (1-800-422-4453).

## Prevention

These steps can help decrease the risk of shaken baby syndrome:

    * Never shake a baby or child in play or in anger. Even gentle shaking can become violent shaking when you are angry.
    * Do not hold your baby during an argument.
    * If you find yourself becoming annoyed or angry with your baby, put the baby in their crib and leave the room. Try to calm down. Call someone for support.
    * Call a friend or relative to come and stay with the child if you feel out of control.
    * Contact a local crisis hotline or child abuse hotline for help and guidance.
    * Seek the help of a counselor and attend parenting classes.
    * Do not ignore the signs if you suspect child abuse in your home or in the home of someone you know. 

## Alternative Names

Shaken impact syndrome; Whiplash - shaken infant; Child abuse - shaken baby

## Images

    * ![Shaken baby symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23189t.jpg)Shaken baby symptoms

## References

Carrasco MM, Woldford JE. Child abuse and neglect. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire
SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 6.

Dubowitz H, Lane WG. Abused and neglected children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

Mazur PM, Hernan LJ, Maiyegun S, Wilson H. Child abuse. In: Fuhrman BP,
Zimmerman JJ, eds. _Pediatric Critical Care_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 122.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildAbuse_thumb.jpg)Child Abuse
_Read more_

![Traumatic Brain
Injury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TraumaticBrainInjury_thumb.jpg)Traumatic
Brain Injury _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

