Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000533.htm    
                                Description: Dying is a process. Sometimes the process takes time. Understanding the process may allow family and friends to help comfort their loved one.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Palliative care - what the final days are like

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000533.htm

# Palliative care - what the final days are like

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dying is a process. Sometimes the process takes time. Understanding the
process may allow family and friends to help comfort their loved one.

## Palliative Care

Palliative care is a holistic approach to care that focuses on treating pain
and symptoms and improving quality of life in people with serious illnesses or
who are in the final days of life.

## The Final Days of Life

For a while, signs that death is near may come and go. Family and friends may
need help understanding the signs that mean a person is close to death.

## What you Might see

As a person gets closer to death, the person might:

    * Have less pain
    * Have trouble swallowing
    * Have blurry vision
    * Have trouble hearing
    * Eat or drink less
    * Lose control of urine and stool
    * Hear or see something and think it is something else, or experience misunderstandings
    * Talk to people who are not in the room
    * Talk about going on a trip or leaving
    * Talk less
    * Moan
    * Have cool hands, arms, feet, or legs
    * Have a blue or gray nose, mouth, fingers, or toes
    * Sleep more
    * Cough more
    * Have breathing that sounds wet, maybe with bubbling sounds
    * Have breathing changes: breathing may stop for a bit, then continue as several quick, deep breaths
    * Stop responding to touch or sounds, or go into a coma 

## What you can do

As family or friends:

    * If you do not understand what you see, ask a hospice team member.
    * Let other family and friends visit, even children -- a few at a time.
    * Help the person get into a comfortable position.
    * Give medicine to treat symptoms.
    * If the person is not drinking, wet his or her mouth with ice chips or a sponge.
    * If the person is hot, put a cool, wet cloth on his or her forehead.
    * Keep a light on. If the person has blurry vision, darkness can be scary.
    * Play soft music that the person likes.
    * Touch the person. Hold hands.
    * Talk calmly to the person. Even if you get no response, he or she may still hear you.
    * Write down what the person says. This may comfort you later.
    * Let the person sleep. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call a member of the hospice team if your loved one shows signs of pain or
anxiety.

## Alternative Names

End of life - final days; Hospice - final days

## References

Arnold R. Care of dying patients and their families. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 3.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

Smith LN, Jackson VA. How do symptoms change for patients in the last days and
hours of life? In: Goldstein NE, Morrison RS, eds. _Evidence-Based Practice of
Palliative Medicine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 39.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * End of Life Issues
    * Palliative Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

