Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000852.htm    
                                Description: Sometimes even the best treatments are not enough to stop cancer. Your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When your child's cancer treatment stops working

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000852.htm

# When your child's cancer treatment stops working

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sometimes even the best treatments are not enough to stop cancer. Your child's
cancer may have become resistant to anti-cancer drugs. It may have come back
or kept growing despite treatment. This can be a difficult time for you and
your family as you make decisions about ongoing treatment and what comes next.

## What it Means When Treatment Stops Working

It is not always clear when to stop treatment. If the first treatment did not
work, doctors often try several different approaches. Usually the chance of
success goes down with each new line of treatment. Your family and child's
health care providers may need to decide whether further treatment is worth
the side effects it causes your child, including pain and discomfort.

## What Happens Next

If treatment is no longer working or you have decided to stop treatment, the
focus of care will change from treating cancer to making sure your child is
comfortable.

Even if there is no hope that the cancer will go away, some treatments can
keep tumors from growing and reduce pain. Your child's health care team may
talk to you about treatments to prevent unnecessary pain.

If you have not done so already, you will need to make some decisions about
the end of your child's life. It is incredibly hard to even think about, but
taking care of these issues can help you focus on making the best of the rest
of your child's life. Things to consider include:

    * What kinds of treatment to use to help your child stay comfortable.
    * Whether or not to have a do not resuscitate order.
    * Where you want your child to spend his final days. Some families are more comfortable in a hospital where a doctor is right around the corner. Other families feel better in the comfort of home. Each family has to make the decision that is right for them.
    * How much to involve your child in decisions. 

## Support for you and Your Family

It may be the hardest thing you have to do but changing your focus from
treating cancer to letting go can be the best thing for your child. You may be
better able to understand what your child is going through, and what your
child needs from you, if you are realistic about what is happening.

You do not have to figure this out on your own. Many hospitals and
organizations have services to help children and parents cope with end-of-life
issues.

## How and When to Talk to Your Child

Children often know more than their parents think. They watch adults' behavior
and listen to what they say. If you avoid difficult subjects, you could give
your child the message that the topics are off limits. Your child may want to
talk, but not want to upset you.

On the other hand, it is important not to push your child to talk if she is
not ready.

Your child's behavior can give you some clues. If your child asks questions
about death, it could be a sign that she wants to talk. If your child changes
the subject or wants to play, your child may have had enough for now.

    * If your child is young, consider using toys or art to talk about death. You may talk about what happens if a doll gets sick, or talk about a book about an animal that dies.
    * Ask open-ended questions that give your child a chance to talk. "What do you think happened to Grandma when she died?"
    * Use direct language that your child will understand. Phrases like "pass away" or "go to sleep" may simply confuse your child.
    * Let your child know that she will not be alone when she dies.
    * Tell your child that the pain will go away when she dies. 

## How to Help Your Child

Your child's energy level will play a key role in how to spend the next weeks
or months. If possible, keep your child involved in normal activities.

    * Stick to routines like family meals, chores, and bedtime stories.
    * Let your child be a child. This may mean watching TV, playing games, or sending texts.
    * Encourage your child to stay in school if possible.
    * Support your child's time with friends. Whether in person, on the phone, or online, your child might want to stay connected to others.
    * Help your child set goals. Your child might want to take a trip or learn something new. Your child's goals will depend on his interests. 

## Help Your Child Prepare

As sad as it is, there are ways you can help your child prepare to die. Let
your child know what physical changes may happen. Your child's doctor may help
you with this. While it is best not to include scary details, knowing what to
expect can help your child feel less anxious.

    * Create family memories. You might go through photos and create a web site or photo book together.
    * Help your child say goodbye to special people in person or through letters.
    * Let your child know what lasting impact he will leave behind. Whether it was being a good son and brother, or helping other people, tell your child how he has made the world a better place.
    * Promise you will be OK when your child dies and will take care of the people and animals your child loves. 

## Alternative Names

End of life care - children; Palliative care - children; Advance care planning
- children

## References

American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) website. Caring for a terminally
ill child. www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/advanced-cancer/caring-
terminally-ill-child. Updated April 2018. Accessed August 14, 2018.

Mack JW, Evan E, Duncan J, Wolfe J. Palliative care in pediatric oncology. In:
Orkin SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and
Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 70.

National Cancer Institute website. Children with cancer: A guide for parents.
www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/children-with-cancer.pdf.
Updated September 2015. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Pediatric supportive care (PDQ) - patient
version. www.cancer.gov/types/childhood-cancers/pediatric-care-
pdq#section/all. Updated November 13, 2015. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer in Children
    * End of Life Issues

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

