

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Global Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Peace Corps Is Common Path to CDC Career

Minus

Related Pages

#### On this Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anthropology and Africa Attract Denise Roth Allen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jody Brooks Organized Soccer League for Street Kids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Richard Davis Focused on Guinea Worm Eradication in West Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contaminated Water in Kazakhstan Pushes David Hunter into Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Peter Kilmarx Battles Tough Living Conditions in Congo to Help Build Fish Ponds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Suzanne Marks Worked with Village Women, Turning Small Businesses into Success Stories for Entire Families
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Peace Corps Led Helen Perry to International Health Career
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Peace Corps Taught Matthew Stockton Flexibility, Sensitivity and Patience
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Karen Voetsch Continues to Give Back as President of the Atlanta Area Returned Peace Corps Volunteer Group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sophie Wenzel Extended Tour to Work with People She Had "Lived with and Grown to Love"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laurel Zaks Was Public Health Educator in Ecuador

### A Few Fast Facts about Peace Corps Volunteers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * To date, there have been 187,000 Peace Corps volunteers and trainees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Total number of countries served is 139
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Average age of a volunteer is 28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Six percent of volunteers are over 50. The oldest is 79
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 59 percent are female; 41 percent are male
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 93 percent are single; 7 percent are married

For more on the Peace Corps, go to their web site:
http://www.peacecorps.gov/External

* * *

### Peace Corps Leads to CDC Career for Many

The Peace Corps was officially established on March 1, 1961. It traces its
roots and mission to 1960, when then Senator John F. Kennedy challenged
students to serve their country in the cause of peace by living and working in
developing countries. From that inspiration grew an agency of the federal
government devoted to world peace and friendship. Many CDCers trace their
public health roots to the Peace Corps -some even refer to the "peace corps
gene" of many CDC staff.

### Anthropology and Africa Attract Denise Roth Allen

![Denise Roth Allen](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace1.jpg)

Denise Roth Allen, behavioral scientist, Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, is
an anthropologist working on the Behavioral Surveillance Team (BST) in the
Behavioral and Clinical Surveillance Branch. From 2001-2003 Allen was an EIS
officer in the Division of Reproductive Health. Since 2003, she´s been in the
Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention. She was in the Peace Corps from 1982 to 1986
in Gabon, Central Africa.

From 1982-1984, Allen taught beginning and intermediate English courses to
seventh and eight grade students in a small rural town. "From 1985-1986, I
extended my Peace Corps service to work as Peace Corps health educator in a
maternal and child clinic," says Allen. "I helped train village health workers
in home-based oral re-hydration and helped organize neighborhood growth
monitoring clinics for children under age five."

Because of her experience working on maternal and child health issues in
Gabon, she decided to get an MPH after her return home. "During the last
quarter of my MPH program at UCLA, I took a course in medical anthropology and
absolutely loved it! The anthropological approach to research reminded me a
lot of my Peace Corps experience…living with and learning from people from a
different culture. As a result, I decided to pursue doctoral studies in
Anthropology. My doctoral research took me back to Africa, this time to
Tanzania, where I conducted ethnographic research on women´s experiences of
pregnancy and childbirth."

Her Peace Corps experience is still paying off, she says. "As part of my
current job, I´ve helped develop the formative research guidelines for the
National HIV Behavioral Surveillance System, which include the use of
qualitative research methods. From time to time, I´ve also had opportunities
to collaborate with CDC colleagues who work on international health issues. My
experience as a Peace Corps health volunteer in Gabon was invaluable in that
it had a direct impact on my career choice to become a cultural anthropologist
working in public health."

Allen, who speaks French and Kiswahili, says it takes openness, flexibility, a
willingness to learn, a respect for other ways of doing things, and a sense of
humor to work effectively in different cultural settings.

 Top of Page

### Jody Brooks Organized Soccer League for Street Kids

![Jody Brooks served in Peace Corps before joining
CDC](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace2.jpg)

Joseph (Jody) Brooks is a Physical Activity Fellow, Division of Nutrition and
Physical Activity who has been at CDC since May 2005. He served in the Peace
Corps in Kingston, Jamaica, from 1999 to 2003. "Ever since I was a youngster
my family and I were always involved with a number of community service
projects. Joining the Peace Corps was an opportunity to continue to serve, but
on an international stage."

Brooks worked for two years as a project officer for a non-governmental
organization. "It's funny, when I tell people I served as a Peace Corps
volunteer in Jamaica, they often think that it was the 'Beach Corps.' The
reality is that although Jamaica has world-class resorts and beaches, many in
the country still live in the third world. While there I started an island-
wide, under-16 soccer league for street kids, was awarded a grant to transform
two open lots into community green space areas, and organized five community
basketball coaching certification clinics and five community basketball kids'
camps."

"From 2001-2003, I was a Peace Corps volunteer leader and worked in the Peace
Corps Jamaica Headquarters. As a liaison between the volunteers and staff I
planned trainings and developed resources with the Program and Training
Officer, conducted site visits, managed the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) Small Projects Assistance grant, and created a grant-
writing handbook for Peace Corps volunteers."

In 1994, Brooks participated in the Public Health Summer Fellowship program,
so he already had an interest in public health. "Realizing how integral
regular physical activity is to both mental and physical health as a Peace
Corps volunteer, influenced my decision to pursue a career in public health. I
now work in the Division of Nutrition and Physical Activity, so the community-
level work experience I had as a Peace Corps volunteer translates nicely to
the work I do now with state and local health departments and our national
organization partners."

"I am a big supporter of Peace Corps and the work we have done and continue to
do," adds Brooks. "I would encourage more capable, open-minded, resourceful
people, regardless of age, to consider becoming a volunteer at some stage in
their life. I would be a much, much better Peace Corps volunteer now, after
having worked at the CDC, then I was…and I still thought I was a pretty darn
good volunteer! CDC employees have a lot of skills they could share with
people around the world."

Brooks, who speaks some Jamaican Patois, French, and Japanese, says it is
important to go into the experience with an open mind. "If you have your own
agenda it will become apparent very quickly. You have to learn the culture and
the history of the people or community in which you want to work. One of the
most important things you need to do is demonstrate your intentions to the
community. If they don´t accept you or believe that you are there to help
them, then you will never succeed. The community needs to own any project that
they are involved in. Sustainable development is key for any lasting impact."

 Top of Page

### Richard Davis Focused on Guinea Worm Eradication in West Africa

![Richard Davis focuesd on Guinea worm eradication in West
Africa](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace3.jpg)

Richard Brannon Davis, senior program analyst, Office of Global Health
coordinates global health activities at NCEH-ATSDR and oversees multiple
water/sanitation projects in Latin America and the Caribbean. He's been with
CDC for 3 ½ years. He served in the Peace Corps from 1999 to 2001, in Rambo,
Burkina Faso, West Africa. Davis says, "I wanted to put my international
affairs education into practice and learn development on the ground." So he
became a health volunteer in Rambo, where his focus was Guinea worm
eradication.

"The core of development is health and education," he says. "After coming back
to attend grad school, CDC was an obvious choice as the next step. I use my
experiences from Peace Corps everyday. I work with governments and
international organizations all over the world, especially in water-san
activities. Without the knowledge of living somewhere for two years and seeing
the challenges many communities face in the developing world I would have no
firm understanding on how to proceed with projects and activities on the
ground and be successful."

Over the recent President's Day weekend, Davis visited two great friends he
met in the Peace Corps eight years ago. "I am seeing my friend Will and his
Burkinabe wife Kartou raise two beautiful twins in San Diego and my friend
Anne from DC enjoying her new job at the State Department."

The people bring back happy memories, he says. But there were tense times too.
"The bad- oh just being caught in a little coup d´etat on Christmas eve in
Abidjan, Cote d´ Ivoire in 1999. The machine guns going off all night weren´t
quite as nice as church bells usually are!"

Davis, who speaks "rusty French," says "The reality is it takes time to gain
trust and to get buy-in from local counterparts. Taking the time to build
strong relationships will help lead to sustainability."

 Top of Page

### Contaminated Water in Kazakhstan Pushes David Hunter into Public Health

![David Hunter](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace4.jpg)

David Hunter, public health advisor, (LTJG, USPHS) with the Division of Global
Migration and Quarantine, assists with the development of training and
education activities for CDC staff and external partners that include Customs
and Border Protection, Border Patrol, state and local health departments, and
airlines. He's been with CDC for over a year. He served in the Peace Corps in
Kazakhstan from 1999-2001. "I graduated college unsure of what I wanted to do,
but eager to get out and get my hands dirty working somewhere far away. I
wanted to tackle the challenge of working in a foreign language within a
different culture. I figured Peace Corps would give me the satisfaction of
contributing to a foreign community, as well as the adventure of international
travel and discovery."

So he taught English as a second language for his primary assignment. Hunter
also developed and directed after school programs which included an
environmental awareness group and a cinematography group. "The film club
wrote, directed and edited short films in English. The project was designed to
provide the participants (high school students) progressively more control
over the production of the films."

Hunter lived in a small village with heavily contaminated water. "As I taught
English to middle and high school students, half the class would be out sick
and I began to think that the health of the community was a much larger and
more important concern. At the same time, I met a USAID employee (also a
former PCV) who was working on HIV/AIDS issues and I found that we shared the
same values of public service and commitment to public welfare and community
wellbeing. The combination of these two factors pushed me toward a career in
public health."

There is nothing more valuable than working within a society that thinks and
operates in a completely different way, Hunter explains. "It´s helpful when
working among others with perceptions, understandings, and ways of thinking
that are different from my own. The bottom line, in my opinion, to
successfully work in a different cultural setting is to be flexible and
patient."

Hunter says, "Unfortunately, I´m losing my Russian language skills each day."
But of his Peace Corps experience he says, "I´d do it again in an instant."

 Top of Page

### Peter Kilmarx Battles Tough Living Conditions in Congo to Help Build Fish
Ponds

![Peter Kilmarx](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace5.jpg)

Peter H. Kilmarx, MD, Chief, Epidemiology Branch, Division of HIV/AIDS
Prevention, (CAPT, USPHS) served in the Peace Corps from 1984 to 1986 "I was a
fisheries volunteer in Democratic Republic of Congo (ex-Zaire) living as the
first and only westerner in a small village. It was very simple living
conditions in a thatch roof mud hut with no electricity or running water. I
worked with about 20 farmers and their families in about a 20 kilometer radius
and together we built about 25 tilapia fish ponds. I am still in touch with
them by mail and they continue to raise fish."

Kilmarx continues, "I became interested in public health observing that there
were infant deaths every year from measles and wondering how that could happen
when we had an effective measles vaccine."

The living conditions were difficult he says, because of poor nutrition,
frequent malaria, filarial, giardia, bot flies, etc. But although it was tough
personally, he says it helped to give him a strong familiarity of central
African culture, people, and development and health issues. "It also gave me a
near universal appreciation for life in rural villages in developing
countries. The Peace Corps is an important network socially and
professionally, including many people at CDC and USAID."

Kilmarx says he was invited to take part in the Ebola Kikwit 1995 response
because of his prior experience in DRC. Another skill he picked up, he says,
is "I can take a two-stroke motorcycle engine apart and put it back together!"

In his job today, he has used Congolese proverbs on several occasions. "Most
recently when addressing a CDC/Atlanta meeting of the Minority AIDS Research
Initiative, I noted that bidi bikengela kulala mu nzubu wa muntu mukuabo bua
kumanya mvula udi ulota muaba kayi which is to say that 'you have to sleep in
another man´s house to know where the roof let´s the rain in' and therefore it
was very appropriate for CDC to want to develop the capacity of minority
researchers to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic in U.S. minority communities. The
saying was very well received by the audience."

 Top of Page

### Suzanne Marks Worked with Village Women, Turning Small Businesses into
Success Stories for Entire Families

![Suzanne Marks](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace6.jpg)

Suzanne Marks is an epidemiologist in the Clinical and Health Systems Research
Branch in the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination of the NCHHSTP. She's been
at CDC since 1997. She served in the Peace Corps from 1983 to 1985 in Togo,
West Africa. "I entered the Peace Corps after completing my coursework for a
master´s degree in Economics, with a specialty in economic development theory.
I first decided to join the Peace Corps during a political science internship
in Washington, DC, after hearing former Peace Corps Director Dick Celeste tell
volunteers´ stories of overcoming incredible challenges. Peace Corps fit in
with my studies and personal goals; I wanted real world experience in
international development and wanted to help others."

Marks was a rural development volunteer who worked with over 400 village women
grouped into 22 weaving, dry-season gardening, and soap-making small
businesses. "I helped them become self-sufficient in their organizations,
develop bookkeeping systems, and solve problems that arose. The bookkeeping
systems qualified the groups to obtain accounts at the credit union from which
they could obtain loans and make investments in lucrative projects. The
business groups also became social groups that helped individual members in
financial need or those in poor health."

Working daily with women who got up at the crack of dawn, fed and cared for
their families, worked all day cultivating the fields or selling goods at the
marketplace, often with one child attached to their back and others in tow,
she saw the inextricable link between health and economic well-being. "Health
problems of women immediately created problems for their whole family. On the
other hand, economic successes of the women immediately translated into
benefits for the entire family. I was very cognizant of that [nutritional]
aspect of health, but, I also became aware of the critical nature of
reproductive health for women living in a culture in which they had little to
no control over their fertility. I personally knew one young woman who died
after a back-alley abortion attempt and another who nearly died. When I
returned to the US, I finished up my master´s degree in economics while
working at USDA and then took a job in family planning, where I become
increasingly involved in efforts to address HIV. Not long afterwards, I
decided to continue studies in public health at Johns Hopkins. Eventually, I
landed here at CDC."

Tolerance and being open-minded to different ways of doing things are
essential to working effectively in different cultures, Marks adds. "Nearly
every Peace Corps Volunteer develops and exhibits the 'can do' attitude,"
Marks says. "Although working together at CDC in the South is sometimes a
challenge, since I identify as a member of a minority culture (LGBT persons-
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) that is often the object of
discrimination and homophobia. I could also add that being a woman and a non-
physician also presents some challenges at CDC."

She highly recommends Peace Corps Service to any adult, she says. "There is no
upper age limit. It vastly expands your experiences and network of friends,
who eventually become like family." Marks speak French and some Spanish.

 Top of Page

### Peace Corps Led Helen Perry to International Health Career

![Helen Perry](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace7.jpg)

Helen Perry is a training specialist and team leader for Integrated Disease
Surveillance and Response in the African region. She's been at CDC ten years.
She served in the Peace Corps in Morocco from1965 to 1967. "I joined the Peace
Corps because I wanted a service opportunity, I had an adventurous spirit, I
was a good language learner, and I was inspired by the idealism of the early
60s."

Perry worked in a provincial hospital laboratory in Meknes, Morocco, and in a
TB hospital in Rabat, Morocco. "In Meknes, I worked in the microbiology, blood
banking, and public health water testing 'departments.' At the TB hospital, we
performed microscopy and cultures."

She got into public health because of her husband, Sam Perry who recently
retired from CDC after 34 years. "I married Sam in 1966 while we were still in
Peace Corps in Morocco. In addition to his domestic posts with CDC, Sam also
had several overseas assignments (the former Zaire, Nepal, and India) where we
spent more than 15 years and raised our family. Public health was the
narrative that surrounded our life story and we grew up in the business with
many wonderful friends and folks who went on to become outstanding public
health leaders. I was lucky to get to know and learn from all of them. While
our children were being raised, and while we were overseas, I was an educator
and taught English, science and languages. When we returned definitively to
the US, I started working as a training developer for WHO global health
programs. Then I came to CDC."

Perry says she recognizes many Peace Corps experiences as relevant to her job
today, "including the need to practice cultural sensitivity and the need to
use what you have at hand to get the job done. You just try to make it happen
even if you don´t have the latest bells and whistles. Also, I think my
grassroots experience of working in local laboratories and health centers
helps me to keep in mind the strengths and limitations experienced by our
colleagues at all levels in our partner countries in Africa and Asia."

She recalls, "We used to have a midday break when I worked in the lab in
Morocco. We would work from 7:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. and then return from 3:30 to
6:30 p.m. I still miss taking a midday nap!"

Perry says working in another culture takes patience. "One needs to spend time
with people in their own context and work side by side with them. It can be on
a routine task, or on some special problem. But the point is to be there and
to share in the consequences. Things may not move as quickly or as smoothly as
one would like, but the important thing is to share the experience (good or
bad) with folks in their own time frame. I also think it takes respecting the
different processes and conditions that different settings present and
accepting that you don´t always have all the answers. You have to be willing
and open to having your own assumptions, sensations and world view challenged
and questioned almost daily."

She speaks French and has also studied Spanish, Italian, Moroccan Arabic and
Lingala.

 Top of Page

### Peace Corps Taught Matthew Stockton Flexibility, Sensitivity and Patience

![Matthew Stockton](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace8.jpg)

Matthew Stockton, MPH, public health advisor, GAP/IPDB, says, "My Mom worked
all over the world for Shell Oil and my Dad was in Vietnam with the
International Voluntary Service teaching English in the early 1960s, so I
guess it was inevitable that I would join the Peace Corps. I was accepted into
a few Occupational Therapy programs my senior year at Wabash College, but the
calling to explore another country and culture was too tempting to pass up."

Stockton was a rural agriculture extension volunteer in Gabon, Africa from
1997-1999. "I worked mostly with village women doing organic gardening. The
idea was to help enhance the family's nutrition and allow the women earn a few
extra CFA (Central African Francs) selling their produce in the local markets.
As a young man in Peace Corps, I thought I was impervious to falling ill and
was careless about my health. I tried to live like the people in my village
and did not sleep under a mosquito net, ate nearly everything that was offered
to me (including monkey), stopped boiling and filtering my drinking water, and
did not wash my hands as often as I should. During my two years in Gabon I got
sick, a lot. I had Malaria, Dengue, Giardia, intestinal parasites, and a whole
host of other random fevers that Peace Corps volunteers simply dubbed 'arbo
virus illness.' When I returned to the US in 2000, I decided to pursue a MPH
in Communicable Diseases from the University of South Florida. Experiencing
many developing countries' public health issues and diseases first hand
definitely was a benefit in graduate school."

Today Stockton is working with the Global AIDS Program (GAP) in the
International Operations Team as a Public Health Advisor. "About sixty percent
of my time is spent out in the field working on management and administrative
issues with our GAP Field Offices. Gabon is a francophone country, so being
able to speak French has helped out tremendously in my work some GAP countries
such as Cote d'Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. Also, my
Peace Corps experience taught me the 'art' of flexibility, sensitivity, and
patience when traveling overseas and dealing with other people and their
cultures."

Stockton has been with CDC since the fall of 2002 when he joined the Public
Health Prevention Program (PHPS).

 Top of Page

### Karen Voetsch Continues to Give Back as President of the Atlanta Area
Returned Peace Corps Volunteer Group

![Karen Voetsch](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace9.jpg)

Karen Voetsch, MPH, is a public health analyst and acting team lead for
Policy, Communications, and Partnerships for the Steps to a HealthierUS
Program, which supports community-based chronic disease prevention programs in
states, cities, and tribal areas. She's been at CDC four years.

From 1996 to 1998, she was a health education/community development volunteer
in Guinea, West Africa. "After completing my undergraduate education, I was
very interested in pursuing volunteer service and was very impressed with the
mission and history of the Peace Corps. I also welcomed the opportunity to
live in a different cultural environment and learn another language." She
speaks French and is conversant in Malinke

As a community development/health education volunteer, Voetsch did many
different things, she says. "One of the challenges was that the job was pretty
undefined. I started working at the local health center and conducted health
education sessions related to malaria, malnutrition, and diarrhea, which were
the three most prevalent diseases in my village. Over time I found that
women's health and education were important issues in the community. In
collaboration with local school teachers, I organized a girls' soccer team
where the students had an opportunity to exercise and have fun, while also
learning about women's health issues and the importance of staying in school.
We also obtained funding to renovate the local middle school and helped
organize a regional women's health conference. I was able to do so many
different things and came to appreciate the flexibility of my role as a
volunteer."

Her time in the Peace Corps taught her that the physical, cultural, and social
environment have a very significant influence on people's beliefs and
behaviors, she says. "After the Peace Corps, I wanted to get a better
understanding of the science behind behavior change. Public health was a
discipline that supported the things I had learned overseas and provided me
with a way to put them into practice."

Voetsch says her Peace Corps experience contributed to her understanding of
community health and assists in her current position. "I learned that gaining
an understanding of a community's needs and working in collaboration with
community members and stakeholders are instrumental to success. I am mindful
of these lessons in working with state, city, and tribal grantees and our
national partners. "Many Peace Corps Volunteers will say that they got much
more out of the experience than they felt they put into it," she says, "and I
have always felt the same way and wanted to continue my involvement with the
Peace Corps. One of the many ways that Returned Peace Corps Volunteers 'give
back' is to organize or become involved in a local organization of returned
volunteers to fulfill the third goal of Peace Corps: 'helping to promote a
better understanding of other peoples on the part of Americans.' "

She says she's learned a lot about working effectively in different cultural
settings and gaining trust and buy in from organizations and communities. "In
many cultures, it's the process that matters and not the outcome, so the ways
in which you interact and communicate with people can become much more
important than the things you actually achieve. It also takes a good
understanding of yourself, your abilities to make a contribution, and your
flexibility to roll with the punches with a good sense of humor"

Currently, Voetsch is the President of the Atlanta Area Returned Peace Corps
Volunteer Group. "As an association, we provide a supportive community for
Returned Peace Corps Volunteers to perform community service, promote global
understanding, and advance civic engagement in the Atlanta area. We volunteer
in the community, we organize educational and social events, and we fund one
major Peace Corps project overseas. If there are other RPCVs out there at CDC,
I would encourage them to visit our website at www.aarpcv.orgExternal and join
the organization."

 Top of Page

### Sophie Wenzel Extended Tour to Work with People She Had "Lived with and
Grown to Love"

![Sophie Wenzel](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace11.jpg)

Sophie Wenzel is a PHPS fellow, assigned to the State of Alaska Division of
Public Health, where she is coordinating the statewide hair mercury
biomonitoring program. She was in the Peace Corps in Paraguay from 1999-2002.
"I had always loved travel and learning about new cultures, and I thought
Peace Corps would be a great way to continue these interests while serving
other people."

She worked as a rural health volunteer in the Chaco desert in Paraguay. "I
worked with women, youth and children, promoting infant survival, such as
breastfeeding, reproductive health, immunizations, proper nutrition, etc. Most
of my work was accomplished doing home visits with women, and youth groups."

Wenzel decided to go into public health after she extended her service and
stayed a third year as volunteer coordinator in the capital city of Asuncion.
"I thought going into public health program management would allow me to help
the people that I had worked and lived with and grown to love."

"My Peace Corps experience has taught me to never take myself too seriously,
and that it´s always ok to laugh at myself," she says. "It has taught me to
remember that we´re all different, have different ways of doing things or
approaching problems, and that there is no one right way. I would highly
encourage anyone who wants to join to look into it!"

Wenzel speaks French (native language) and also Spanish and Guarani
(Indigenous language in Paraguay).

 Top of Page

### Laurel Zaks Was Public Health Educator in Ecuador

![Laurel Zaks](/globalhealth/employment/images/peace10.jpg)

Laurel Zaks is a public health advisor, Coordinating Office for Global Health,
and recently responsible for updating the Memorandum of Understanding between
Peace Corps and CDC. She's been at CDC since returning from Peace Corps,
February 2001. "I got the job a week after finishing in Ecuador January 2001."

From July 1997 to January 2001, Zaks was in Ecuador. "Having worked as a
dietitian and even after having an MPH, I wanted to live abroad longer term
than with other opportunities that I had; I wanted to understand public health
internationally by living in a community, learn about the culture, and
understand the basics of public health in the country." So she served as a
public health educator and nutritionist and kept extending her service. "I
would tell folks, I just need to stay for one more mango season. In
development work, I believe we need to work ourselves out of a job and leave
it behind in a sustainable way."

"Initially I lived and worked in the rainforest region working with both the
local Ministry of Health and local indigenous organizations, getting to work
via hiking in jungle-mud and traveling in dug out canoes along the Amazon
River. After a little more than a year, I went on to live in a large Latin
city called Santo Domingo de Los Colorados and worked at a Center for
Malnourished Children. I also spent a few months in the mountains working with
a women´s cooperative on health education. Since 2001 I have been back to
Ecuador twice to visit with the communities in the rainforest and with the
families and my coworkers at the Center for Malnourished Children."

Zaks worked with the Ecuadorians developing curricula and conducted technical
training in Spanish in preventive maternal and child health education and
infectious diseases for local health promoters, medical professionals and
other volunteers.

Serving as a volunteer as long as she did, she also helped design a new
$400,000 Children's Center for Nutrition Recuperation which served an average
of 40 families daily. She supervised transition to the new facility, revised
treatment and case management protocols, menus, and the management structure
to improve outcomes for patients and families with malnourished children.

Her experiences there "solidified that I wanted to continue working in global
health," she says. "I use these and other international work experiences
constantly. It allows for a perspective in my more current macro job and draws
from a more micro one-on-one provider job. I see all kinds of CDC--projects in
the field and often think this is a Peace Corps project only with easier
logistics and more funding. Peace Corps is not for everyone but it is amazing
if you allow yourself the opportunity to share what you have and be open to
learning what living and working in another culture offers."

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 7, 2015

Content source: Global Health

home Global Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is CDC Doingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC and the Global Health Security Agendaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Driven Progress
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sustainable Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multisector Solutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Road Ahead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Immunization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV & TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Malaria & Parasitic Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Diseases & Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food & Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Where We Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Download Country Fact Sheets 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Strategy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Our Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Newsroomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Expertsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rebecca Martin, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hamid Jafari, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nancy Knight, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Monica Parise, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * W. William Schluter, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hank Tomlinson, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ray R. Arthur, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Polio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis (TB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featured Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publication Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * In the News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Our Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Photo Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dear Colleague Letters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Photos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate Our Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CGH Accomplishments 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Impact by the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advancing Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreaks and Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ending the Burden of Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV Research, Policy, and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Research for Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria and Parasitic Disease Control in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Technology and Innovation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs & Opportunitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training, Fellowships, & Internships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Volunteering
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contracting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Students & Recent Graduates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Returned Peace Corps Volunteers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IETA Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Assignments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eligibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Application Process

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Facebook Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/fb-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Twitter Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/twitter-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Instagram Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/ig-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![YouTube Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/youtube-icon.png)
  
  

Social_govd Get Email Updates

Get CDC's free global health newsletter each week! Enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

