Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000848.htm    
                                Description: When a parent    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Talking with a child about a parent's terminal illness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000848.htm

# Talking with a child about a parent's terminal illness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When a parent's cancer treatment has stopped working, you may wonder how to
tell your child. Talking openly and honestly is an important way to help ease
your child's anxiety.

## How to Talk to Your Child

You may wonder when it is the right time to talk to your child about death. In
truth, there might not be one perfect time. You can give your child time to
absorb the news and ask questions by talking soon after you find out your
cancer is terminal. Being included in this difficult transition can help your
child feel reassured. It can help to know your family will go through this
together.

Age and past experience have a lot to do with what children understand about
cancer. While it may be tempting to use euphemisms like, "Mom will be going
away," such vague words confuse kids. It is better to be clear about what is
going to happen and address your child's fears.

    * Be specific. Tell your child what kind of cancer you have. If you just say you are sick, your child might worry that anyone who gets sick will die.
    * Let your child know you cannot catch cancer from someone else. Your child does not have to worry about getting it from you, or giving it to friends.
    * Explain that it is not your child's fault. While this may be obvious to you, kids tend to believe they cause things to happen by what they do or say.
    * If your child is too young to understand death, talk in terms of the body not working anymore. You might say, "When Dad dies, he will stop breathing. He will not eat or talk anymore."
    * Tell your child what will happen next. For instance, "The treatment is not going to cure my cancer so the doctors are going to make sure I am comfortable." 

## How Your Child Might React

Your child might ask questions right away or become quiet and want to talk
later. You may need to answer the same questions many times while your child
comes to terms with the loss. Kids often want to know things like:

    * What will happen to me?
    * Who will take care of me?
    * Are you (the other parent) going to die too? 

Try to reassure your child as much as you can without covering up the truth.
Explain that your child will continue to live with the surviving parent after
you die. The parent without cancer can say, "I do not have cancer. I plan to
be around for a long time."

If your child asks questions you cannot answer, it is OK to say you do not
know. If you think you can find the answer, tell your child you will try to
find the answer.

As kids get older, they become more aware that death is permanent. Your child
might grieve on and off into the teen years, as the loss becomes more real.
Grief can involve any of these emotions:

    *  **Guilt.** Adults and kids may feel guilty after someone they love dies. Kids might think the death is a punishment for something they did.
    *  **Anger.** As hard as it is to hear anger expressed toward the dead, this is a normal part of grief.
    *  **Regression.** Kids can slip back to the behavior of a younger child. Children may resume bedwetting or need more attention from the surviving parent. Try to be patient, and remember that this is temporary.
    *  **Depression.** Sorrow is a necessary part of grief. But if the sorrow becomes so intense your child cannot cope with life, you should seek help from a mental health professional. 

## How to Help Your Child

You may wish you could take away your child's pain but having the chance to
talk through difficult feelings with you can be the best comfort. Explain that
your child's feelings, whatever they are, are ok, and that you will listen any
time your child wants to talk.

As much as possible, keep your child involved in normal routines. Say that it
is ok to go to school, after-school activities, and out with friends.

Some children act out when faced with bad news. Your child could have trouble
in school or pick fights with friends. Some kids become clingy. Talk to your
child's teacher or guidance counselor and let them know what is going on.

You might talk to the parents of your child's close friends. It may help if
your child has friends to talk with.

## Keep Your Child Close

You may be tempted to have your child stay with a friend or relative to spare
your child from witnessing death. Most experts say it is more upsetting for
children to be sent away. Your child will likely do better being close to you,
at home.

## When to Call Your Doctor

If your child is unable to return to normal activities 6 months or longer
after a parent dies, or is exhibiting risky behavior, call your health care
provider.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Helping children when a family member has
cancer: dealing with a parent's terminal illness.
www.cancer.org/treatment/children-and-cancer/when-a-family-member-has-
cancer/dealing-with-parents-terminal-illness.html. Updated March 20, 2015.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

Liptak C, Zeltzer LM, Recklitis CJ. Psychosocial care of the child and family.
In: Orkin SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan
and Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;2015:chap 73.

National Cancer Institute website. Coping with advanced cancer.
www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/advanced-cancer. Updated May
2014. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer
    * End of Life Issues

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

