Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000473.htm    
                                Description: A do-not-resuscitate order, or DNR order, is a medical order written by a doctor. It instructs health care providers not to do cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) if a patient    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Do-not-resuscitate order

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000473.htm

# Do-not-resuscitate order

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A do-not-resuscitate order, or DNR order, is a medical order written by a
doctor. It instructs health care providers not to do cardiopulmonary
resuscitation (CPR) if a patient's breathing stops or if the patient's heart
stops beating.

## What is a DNR?

A DNR order is created, or set up, before an emergency occurs. A DNR order
allows you to choose whether or not you want CPR in an emergency. It is
specific about CPR. It does not have instructions for other treatments, such
as pain medicine, other medicines, or nutrition.

The doctor writes the order only after talking about it with the patient (if
possible), the proxy, or the patient's family.

## What is Resuscitation?

CPR is the treatment you receive when your blood flow or breathing stops. It
may involve:

    * Simple efforts such as mouth-to-mouth breathing and pressing on the chest
    * Electric shock to restart the heart
    * Breathing tubes to open the airway
    * Medicines 

## Making the Decision

If you are near the end of your life or you have an illness that will not
improve, you can choose whether you want CPR to be done.

    * If you do want to receive CPR, you do not have to do anything.
    * If you do not want CPR, talk with your doctor about a DNR order. 

These can be hard choices for you and those who are close to you. There is no
hard and fast rule about what you may choose.

Think about the issue while you are still able to decide for yourself.

    * Learn more about your medical condition and what to expect in the future.
    * Talk to your doctor about the pros and cons of CPR. 

A DNR order may be a part of a hospice care plan. The focus of this care is
not to prolong life, but to treat symptoms of pain or shortness of breath, and
to maintain comfort.

If you have a DNR order, you always have the right to change your mind and
request CPR.

## How is a DNR Order Created?

If you decide you want a DNR order, tell your doctor and health care team what
you want. Your doctor must follow your wishes, or:

    * Your doctor may transfer your care to a doctor who will carry out your wishes.
    * If you are a patient in a hospital or nursing home, your doctor must agree to settle any disputes so that your wishes are followed. 

The doctor can fill out the form for the DNR order.

    * The doctor writes the DNR order on your medical chart if you are in the hospital.
    * Your doctor can tell you how to get a wallet card, bracelet, or other DNR documents to have at home or in non-hospital settings.
    * Standard forms may be available from your state's Department of Health. 

Make sure to:

    * Include your wishes in a living will or health care power of attorney.
    * Inform your health care agent and family of your decision. 

If you do change your mind, talk with your doctor or health care team right
away. Also tell your family and caregivers about your decision. Destroy any
documents you have that include the DNR order.

## When You are Unable to Make the Decision

Due to illness or injury, you may not be able to state your wishes about CPR.
In this case:

    * If your doctor has already written a DNR order at your request, your family may not override it.
    * You may have named someone to speak for you, such as a health care agent. If so, this person or a legal guardian can agree to a DNR order for you. 

If you have not named someone to speak for you, a family member or friend can
agree to a DNR order for you, but only when you are not able to make your own
medical decisions.

## Alternative Names

No code; End-of-life; Do not resuscitate; Do not resuscitate order; DNR; DNR
order; Advance care directive - DNR; Health care agent - DNR; Health care
proxy - DNR; End-of-life - DNR; Living will - DNR

## References

Arnold R. Care of dying patients and their families. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 3.

Fabiny A, Sabatino C. Living Wills: A Guide to Advance Directives, the Health
Care Power of Attorney, and Other Key Documents. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Health
Publications; 2013.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * End of Life Issues

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

