Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000748.htm    
                                Description: Statins are medicines that help lower the amount of cholesterol and other fats in your blood. Statins work by:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to take statins

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000748.htm

# How to take statins

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Statins are medicines that help lower the amount of cholesterol and other fats
in your blood. Statins work by:

    * Lowering LDL (bad) cholesterol
    * Raising HDL (good) cholesterol in your blood
    * Lowering triglycerides, another type of fat in your blood 

Statins block how your liver makes cholesterol. Cholesterol can stick to the
walls of your arteries and narrow or block them.

## How do Statins Help?

Improving your cholesterol levels can help protect you from heart disease,
heart attack, and stroke.

Your health care provider will work with you to lower your cholesterol by
improving your diet. If this is not successful, medicines to lower cholesterol
may be the next step.

Statins are often the first drug treatment for high cholesterol. Both adults
and teenagers can take statins when needed.

## What Statins are Right for you?

There are different brands of statin drugs, including less expensive, generic
forms. For most people, any of the statin drugs will work to lower cholesterol
levels. However, some people may need the more powerful types.

A statin may be prescribed along with other medicines. Combination tablets are
also available. They include a statin plus medicine to manage another
condition, such as high blood pressure.

## How are Statins Taken?

Take your medicine as directed. The medicine comes in tablet or capsule form.
DO NOT open capsules, or break or chew tablets, before taking the medicine.

You take statins once a day. Some should be taken at night, but others can be
taken anytime. They come in different doses, depending on how much you need to
lower your cholesterol. DO NOT stop taking your medicine without talking with
your provider first.

Read the label on the bottle carefully. Some brands should be taken with food.
Others may be taken with, or without food.

Store all of your medicines in a cool, dry place. Keep them where children
cannot get to them.

You should follow a healthy diet while taking statins. This includes eating
less fat in your diet. Other ways you can help your heart include:

    * Getting regular exercise
    * Managing stress
    * Quitting smoking 

## What are the Risks?

Before you start taking statins, tell your provider if:

    * You are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. Pregnant and nursing mothers should not take statins.
    * You have allergies.
    * You are taking other medicines.
    * You have diabetes.
    * You have liver disease. You should not take statins if you have acute or long-term (chronic) liver diseases. 

Tell your provider about all of your medications, supplements, vitamins, and
herbs. Certain medicines may interact with statins. Be sure to tell your
provider before taking any new medicines.

Overall, there is no need to avoid moderate amounts of grapefruit in the diet.
An 8 ounce (240 mL) glass or one grapefruit can be safely consumed.

Regular blood tests will help you and your provider:

    * See how well the medicine is working
    * Monitor for side effects, such as liver problems 

## Possible Side Effects

Mild side effects may include:

    * Muscle/joint aches
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea
    * Constipation
    * Dizziness
    * Headache
    * Upset stomach
    * Gas 

Though rare, more serious side effects are possible. Your provider will
monitor you for signs. Talk with your provider about the possible risks for:

    * Liver damage
    * Severe muscle problems
    * Kidney damage
    * High blood sugar or type 2 diabetes
    * Memory loss
    * Confusion 

## When to Call the Doctor

Tell your provider right away if you have:

    * Muscle or joint pain or tenderness
    * Weakness
    * Fever
    * Dark urine
    * Other new symptoms 

## Alternative Names

Antilipemic Agent; HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors; Atorvastatin (LipitorÂ®);
Simvastatin (ZocorÂ®); Lovastatin (MevacorÂ®, AltoprevÂ®); Pravastatin
(PravacholÂ®); Rosuvastatin (CrestorÂ®); Fluvastatin (LescolÂ®);
Hyperlipidemia - statins; Hardening of the arteries statins; Cholesterol -
statins; Hypercholesterolemia - statins; Dyslipidemia -statins; Statin

## References

Aronson JK, HMG coenzyme-A reductase inhibitors. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's
Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:763-780.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 48.

Lee JW, Morris JK, Wald NJ. Grapefruit juice and statins. _Am J Med_.
2016;129(1):26-29. PMID: 26299317 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26299317.

Semenkovich CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

Stone NJ, Robinson J, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2014;1239(25
Suppl 2):S46-S48. PMID: 24222016 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222016.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cholesterol
    * Cholesterol Medicines
    * How to Lower Cholesterol
    * Statins

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

