Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000314.htm    
                                Description: Your body needs cholesterol to work properly. But extra cholesterol in your blood causes deposits to build up on the inside walls of your blood vessels. This buildup is called plaque. It narrows your arteries    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholesterol - drug treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000314.htm

# Cholesterol - drug treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your body needs cholesterol to work properly. But extra cholesterol in your
blood causes deposits to build up on the inside walls of your blood vessels.
This buildup is called plaque. It narrows your arteries and can reduce or stop
blood flow. This can lead to heart attack, stroke, and narrowing of the
arteries elsewhere in your body.

![Cholesterol](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19190.jpg)![Plaque
buildup in arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19314.jpg)

Statins are thought to be the best drugs to use for people who need medicines
to lower their cholesterol.

## Alternative names

Hyperlipidemia - drug treatment; Hardening of the arteries - statin

## Statins for Cholesterol

Statins reduce your risk of heart disease, stroke, and other related problems.
They do this by lowering your LDL (bad) cholesterol.

Most of the time you will need to take this medicine for the rest of your
life. In some cases, changing your lifestyle and losing extra weight may allow
you to stop taking this medicine.

## Who Should Take Statins to Lower Cholesterol?

Having low LDL and total cholesterol reduces your risk of heart disease. But
not everyone needs to take statins to lower cholesterol.

Your health care provider will decide on your treatment based on:

    * Your total, HDL (good), and LDL (bad) cholesterol levels
    * Your age
    * Your history of diabetes, high blood pressure, or heart disease
    * Other health problems that may be caused by high cholesterol
    * Whether or not you smoke
    * Your risk of heart disease
    * Your ethnicity 

You should take statins if you are 75 or younger, and you have a history of:

    * Heart problems due to narrowed arteries in the heart
    * Stroke or TIA (mini stroke)
    * Aortic aneurysm (a bulge in the main artery in your body)
    * Narrowing of the arteries to your legs 

If you are older than 75, your provider may prescribe a lower dose of a
statin. This may help lessen possible side effects.

You should take statins if your LDL cholesterol is 190 mg/dL or higher. You
should also take statins if your LDL cholesterol is between 70 and 189 mg/dL
and:

    * You have diabetes and are between ages 40 and 75
    * You have diabetes and a high risk of heart disease
    * You have a high risk of heart disease 

You and your provider may want to consider statins if your LDL cholesterol is
70 to 189 mg/dL and:

    * You have diabetes and a medium risk for heart disease
    * You have a medium risk for heart disease 

If you have a high risk for heart disease and your LDL cholesterol stays high
even with statin treatment, your provider may consider these drugs in addition
to statins:

    * Ezetimibe
    * PCSK9 inhibitors, such as alirocumab and evolocumab (Repatha) 

## How low Should Your LDL Cholesterol be?

Doctors used to set a target level for your LDL cholesterol. But now the focus
is reducing your risk for problems caused by narrowing of your arteries. Your
provider may monitor your cholesterol levels. But frequent testing is rarely
needed.

You and your provider will decide what dose of a statin you should take. If
you have risk factors, you may need to take higher doses. or add other types
of drugs. Factors that your provider will consider when choosing your
treatment include:

    * Your total, HDL, and LDL cholesterol levels before treatment
    * Whether you have coronary artery disease (history of angina or heart attack), a history of stroke, or narrowed arteries in your legs
    * Whether you have diabetes
    * Whether you smoke or have high blood pressure 

Higher doses may lead to side effects over time. So your provider will also
consider your age and risk factors for side effects.

## Images

    * ![Cholesterol](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19190t.jpg)Cholesterol
    * ![Plaque buildup in arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19314t.jpg)Plaque buildup in arteries

## References

American Diabetes Association. Cardiovascular disease and risk management:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S86-S104. PMID: 29222380 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222380.

Fox CS, Golden SH, Anderson C, et al. Update on prevention of cardiovascular
disease in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus in light of recent evidence: a
scientific statement from the American Heart Association and the American
Diabetes Association. _Circulation_. 2015;132(8):691-718. PMID: 26246173
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26246173.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018
AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the
management of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice
Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2018. pii: S0735-1097(18)39034-X. PMID:
30423393 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30423393.

US Preventive Services Task Force. Final recommendation statement: statin use
for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults: preventive
medication.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/statin-
use-in-adults-preventive-medication1. Updated November 2016. Accessed March
20, 2018.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
    * Carotid artery disease
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart attack
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart disease and diet
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge
    * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
03-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cholesterol
    * Cholesterol Medicines
    * High Cholesterol in Children and Teens
    * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol
    * Statins

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

