

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Global Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# CDC Global Health Strategy 2019 -2021

Minus

Related Pages

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) aspires to create a
world where people - in the United States and around the globe - live
healthier, safer, and longer lives. As the lead U.S. Government (USG) agency
dedicated to the health and safety of the American people, CDC works 24/7
worldwide to reduce morbidity and mortality and safeguard communities by
addressing global health threats before they affect the United States.
Achieving this vision requires that CDC draws upon its scientific and
technical expertise, innovation, and research to address known and emerging
public health threats globally, whether naturally occurring or man-made.

CDC understands the importance of the trust placed in the agency to keep
Americans safe from public health threats both domestically and abroad. CDC
also takes seriously its responsibility to be a good steward of resources and
to ensure efficiencies by demonstrating its impact on leading public health
priorities, fostering technical sustainability, and reducing the economic
impact from diseases.

CDC Core Technical Strengths

CDC's global health strategy is built around the agency's core strengths: our
scientific leadership and expertise, laboratory capacity and innovation, and
data analytics to drive impact. CDC has unique expertise in using public
health data to inform decisions, building public health laboratory capacity,
developing a strong public health workforce, and establishing systems for
emergency operations and response. In addition, CDC has deep technical
expertise in disease-specific areas, operational research, implementation and
evaluation of public health programs, and provision of technical assistance to
Ministries of Health (MOHs), other public health institutions, Non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and private sector industries.

CDC Global Health Strategy 2019 - 2021

![CDC Global Health Strategy 2019 - 2021](/globalhealth/strategy/images/CDC-
Global-Strategy_01-sm.jpg)

CDC Global Health Strategy 2019 - 2021 (For Print) pdf icon[PDF - 2 MB]

Vision

CDC aspires to create a world where people - in the United States and around
the globe - live healthier, safer, and longer lives.

Mission

CDC's global health mission is to improve the health, safety, and security of
Americans while reducing morbidity and mortality worldwide.

## _Goals and Objectives_

Goal 1 - Health Impact: Save lives, improve health outcomes, and foster
healthy populations globally

Objective 1.1: Reduce the morbidity and mortality of high burden diseases and
conditions

Objective 1.2: Eliminate and eradicate priority diseases and other public
health threats

Goal 2 - Health Security: Protect Americans and populations across the globe
by strengthening global public health prevention, detection, and response

Objective 2.1: Strengthen the capacity to prevent and detect disease outbreaks
and other public health threats

Objective 2.2: Strengthen the capacity for timely and effective response to
disease outbreaks and other public health threats

Goal 3 - Public Health Science Leadership: Lead and influence the advancement
of global public health science and practice

Objective 3.1: Develop and apply global public health scientific, laboratory,
and programmatic expertise

Objective 3.2: Translate and disseminate evidence-based research and data into
global health guidance, policy, and programs

Objective 3.3: Drive innovation to accelerate new, more effective tools,
products, strategies, and technologies

## _Pillars of CDC 's Global Health Strategy _

Scientific Expertise

CDC has a demonstrated record of trailblazing science, evidence-based
decision-making and action, and an experienced workforce that are experts in
their fields. Our workforce is available to address the most urgent global
public health threats.

Diverse Partnerships

CDC fosters health diplomacy through its longstanding bilateral and
multilateral partnerships, engagement with the private sector, and ongoing
collaborations with academic institutions and foundations. CDC maximizes the
agency's unique role while leveraging these diverse partnerships to achieve
measurable health impact around the world.

Sustainability

CDC takes seriously its responsibility to be a good steward of resources by
demonstrating impact on leading public health priorities, fostering technical
sustainability, reducing the economic impact of disease outbreaks globally,
and building lasting capacity for countries to address current and future
health needs.

Innovation

CDC leverages the latest technologies and advanced analytics to accelerate
public health impact. CDC develops new medical countermeasures, diagnostics,
laboratory and data platforms, and explores new ways to innovate across its
global health portfolio by identifying unique models of collaboration and
partnerships.

Health Equity

CDC helps to eliminate health disparities and achieve optimal health for all.
CDC addresses health equity and reaches those in greatest need through its
global programs, research, tools and resources, and leadership.

### Further

Continue Reading...

# **INTRODUCTION**

**Background and Context**  
Since the establishment of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) in 1946, the agency's global health work has grown in scale, scope, and
complexity to address evolving public health challenges and emerging threats
around the world. With an initial focus on malaria elimination in the United
States, CDC's leadership and engagement expanded over time to address a range
of diseases and conditions, improve global health preparedness and security,
and enhance science-based knowledge and practice.

In today's interconnected world, a disease threat anywhere is a disease threat
everywhere. From a global health perspective, domestic and international
health are inseparable; no one country can safeguard the health of its
citizens in isolation from the rest of the world. In order to protect our
communities at home, traveling, living, and working abroad - including armed
services personnel deployed overseas - CDC works with international partners
to stop public health threats at their source. CDC drives change to make a
lasting public health impact, mitigate health threats and help ensure
stability to protect Americans and foster safe, secure, and healthy societies
worldwide.

**Future of Global Health**  
A health threat anywhere is a health threat everywhere in this increasingly
globalized world; therefore, public health is at a crossroads and CDC is
adapting and innovating to meet the new challenges.  These new range of health
challenges are tied to global production of food and medicine, an increase in
global travel, more frequent and severe weather events, and a steady rise in
the world's population. Outbreaks from Ebola to novel Influenza are
increasingly identified in places not seen before. An aging population means
people are living longer with chronic diseases, which are more costly and
complicated to treat. The growing proportion of young people in sub-Saharan
Africa, who will be at risk of exposure to HIV, threatens gains made in hard-
won declines in new HIV infections.

Additionally, with innovations from the private sector and an increase in
academic institutions and non-profit organizations implementing global health
programs, CDC must not only collaborate with these organizations but also
continuously bring new approaches and efficiencies to CDC's work around the
world to deliver its public health mission in the most effective way.

The purpose of this strategy is to articulate CDC's unique global role in
public health. As the lead public health agency for the United States and a
renowned global organization, CDC continues to make measurable, sustained
progress in the highest impact areas, based on burden of disease evaluations,
the likelihood of producing positive effects, and an awareness of the economic
implications of public health action, for a range of future and ongoing public
health threats.

**CDC Global Health Vision, Mission, and Principles**  
The CDC aspires to create a world where people - in the United States and
around the globe - live healthier, safer, and longer lives. As the lead U.S.
Government (USG) agency dedicated to the health and safety of the American
people, CDC works 24/7 worldwide to reduce morbidity and mortality and
safeguard communities by addressing global health threats before they affect
the United States. Achieving this vision requires that CDC draws upon its
scientific and technical expertise, innovation, and research to address known
and emerging public health threats globally, whether naturally occurring or
man-made.

CDC's global health mission is to improve the health, safety, and security of
Americans while reducing morbidity and mortality worldwide. The agency does
this through its expertise, unique technical skills, scientific knowledge and
research, collaborative partnerships, and evidence-based, global public health
action. CDC executes its global health vision and mission by focusing on three
goal areas: 1) achieving measurable global health impact, 2) assuring global
health security, and 3) providing world-renowned public health science
leadership and expertise.

Furthermore, the following principles(referred to as "pillars" previously)
guide CDC's global public health work across the agency:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Scientific Expertise -CDC has a demonstrated record of trailblazing science, evidence-based decision-making and action, and an experienced workforce that are experts in their field. Our workforce is available to address the most urgent global public health issues.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Diverse Partnerships - CDC fosters health diplomacy through its longstanding inter-agency partnerships, bilateral and multilateral partnerships, engagement with the private sector and ongoing collaborations with academic institutions and foundations. CDC is able to maximize the agency's unique role while leveraging these diverse partnerships to achieve measurable health impact around the world.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Innovation - CDC leverages the latest technologies and advanced analytics to accelerate public health impact. CDC develops new medical countermeasures, diagnostics, laboratory and data platforms and explores new ways to innovate across its global health portfolio by identifying unique models of collaboration and partnership.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Sustainability - CDC takes seriously its responsibility to be a good steward of resources by demonstrating impact on leading public health priorities, fostering technical sustainability, reducing the economic impact of disease outbreaks globally, and building lasting capacity for countries to address current and future health needs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Health Equity - CDC works to eliminate health disparities and achieve optimal health for all. CDC addresses health equity and reaches those in greatest need through its global programs, research, tools and resources, and leadership.

**CDC Global Health Goals, Objectives, and Strategies**  
CDC global health objectives align with a number of national strategies and
plans including the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Strategic
Plan, the CDC Strategic Framework, the U.S. National Security Strategy, the
National Biodefense Strategy, and the U.S. Global Health Security Strategy.
CDC's work supports a number of global and presidential initiatives across
several health priorities, including the Global Health Security Agenda, the
Global Polio Eradication Initiative, the Measles and Rubella Initiative, the
National Action Plan for Combatting Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria (CARB), the
Neglected Tropical Disease Initiative, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS
Relief (PEPFAR), and the President's Malaria Initiative (PMI). CDC works with
multilateral partners like the World Health Organization (WHO), World
Organization for Animal Health (OIE), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO),
and USG agencies like the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID),
Department of State (DoS), and Department of Defense (DoD). These diverse,
multi-sectoral partnerships best position the agency to affect  change,
maximize impact, and prevent disease among people in the United States and
around the world.

Goal 1 - Health Impact: Save lives, improve health outcomes, and foster
healthy populations globally

As the U.S. public health agency, CDC plays a prominent role in identifying
and addressing leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Through
cutting-edge science, real-time surveillance, laboratory diagnostics, and
collaborative partnerships, CDC develops evidence-based programs and
interventions to target effectively diseases, populations, and regions. CDC
leverages the expertise of its workforce -- both at headquarters and in the
field -- to improve health and well-being around the world, continuously
building the evidence base, scaling up what works, and applying lessons
learned to reducing and eliminating future health threats.  CDC works
diligently to enhance the capacity of other countries to prevent, detect, and
respond to diseases and other public health threats at their source, helping
to save lives, improve health, and eliminate disease in regions across the
globe.

Objective 1.1: Reduce the morbidity and mortality of high burden diseases and
conditions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Collect data, analyze the information, and report on key findings to build the evidence base, target specific populations, and tailor preventive interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Develop data-driven strategies and programs to prevent disease, promote optimal health, and improve health outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Implement, optimize, evaluate and scale interventions to maximize health impact and sustain improved health and well-being

1.1 Highlighted Focus Areas

 **A. Achieving an AIDS-Free generation**  
CDC supports the design and implementation of HIV-focused population surveys,
sometimes referred to as "PHIAs" - Population-based HIV Impact Assessments,
which provide the clearest picture to-date of the HIV epidemic in some of the
world's most affected countries. These national surveys - implemented under
the leadership of Ministries of Health and by PEPFAR, CDC, and partners such
as ICAP at Columbia University and the University of Maryland- directly
measure progress toward global targets to control the HIV epidemic.

Recent data show that up to 13 high-HIV-burden countries are poised to achieve
epidemic control by 2020.  For example, Ethiopia has reached HIV/AIDS epidemic
control and data from Uganda indicate that its previously expanding epidemic
has stabilized. CDC also uses data from these assessments to inform planning
and the decisions surrounding real-world, real-time public health solutions.
CDC plays a critical role in their implementation, lending expertise in
epidemiology, laboratory science, and data analysis to help partners design
and implement the surveys, and rapidly harness the results for program
improvement.

**B. Innovating TB and Malaria prevention and treatment**  
The Malaria Frontline project in Nigeria, building on  infrastructure
established for polio eradication, is providing early lessons about how
systematic collection and review of malaria case data can be used to inform
local decisions about distribution of malaria commodities and timing of
community-level prevention activities.

Tuberculosis (TB) is the leading infectious cause of death and the leading
cause of death for people living with HIV (PLHIV).  Worldwide, an estimated
40% of deaths in PLHIV are due to TB.  TB preventive therapy (TPT) reduces
5-year mortality among PLHIV by 37%, independent of HIV treatment. Although
the use of preventive therapy has been a World Health Organization (WHO)
recommendation for PLHIV and children <5 years exposed to persons with TB
since 1993, global uptake has been extremely slow.  Of the 34.5 million adults
living with HIV, only 4.8 million (14%) were ever reported to have been
started on preventive therapy since 1993. To address this gap, CDC, through
PEPFAR programs, has prioritized TPT with guidance to countries, as well as
requiring reporting for TPT initiation and completion. CDC is working closely
with its country offices providing technical assistance to improve and expand
scale-up of TPT.

**C. Optimizing impact of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines**  
To date, 142 countries have introduced pneumococcal conjugate vaccines (PCV)
into their routine immunization programs; CDC has worked with over 35 of these
countries to monitor PCV impact. For example, CDC worked with Haiti to
strengthen their capacity for bacterial meningitis surveillance in
anticipation of measuring PCV impact upon introduction in late 2018.
Additionally, data from effectiveness studies conducted in South Africa with
CDC and in-country partners resulted in a change in the PCV schedule. CDC is
evaluating the impact of PCV by building epidemiological and laboratory
capacity to help countries generate evidence regarding PCV introduction and
sustained use. Through partnerships - with Ministries of Health, academic
institutions, the World Health Organization, and other public health
stakeholders,CDC has strengthened surveillance to monitor disease burden for
pneumonia and meningitis and conduct studies to measure the effectiveness of
PCV against disease and carriage.

Objective 1.2: Eliminate and eradicate priority diseases and other public
health threats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Provide pathogen-specific expertise, laboratory diagnostics, and decision analysis for targeted disease elimination, eradication, and control efforts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apply expertise and lessons learned from elimination and eradication efforts to inform future control strategies and prevent resurgence

1.2 Highlighted Focus Areas

 **A. Eradicating polio and combating vaccine-preventable diseases (VPD)**  
CDC houses the global reference laboratories for measles, rubella, congenital
rubella syndrome, and polio, providing support to global laboratory networks
through training, reference testing, and research.   Advanced molecular
analysis allows programs to track transmission of measles, rubella, and
polioviruses, to guide programmatic efforts to interrupt circulation.
Environmental surveillance for poliovirus provides early warning of virus
circulation before paralysis cases arise and additional evidence of
interruption where paralysis cases are absent.  These laboratory tools
contribute to programs that  are driving polio to the brink of extinction and
reducing the number of annual global measles-related deaths to under 100,000
for the first time in 2016.

**B. Developing advanced tools and techniques for detecting new microbes,
biomarkers, and cases**  
CDC researchers have developed a novel, integrated serosurveillance platform
for public health use across vaccine preventable diseases, malaria, neglected
tropical diseases, water-borne diseases, and maternal-child health programs,
that can simultaneously measure up to 100 different disease-specific
antibodies from a single, dried blood spot, an easy-to-collect sample type.

**C. Eliminating epidemic meningitis in Africa**  
MenAfriVac, a novel vaccine against serogroup A meningococcal disease, was the
first vaccine developed specifically for Africa and 21 countries have
introduced the vaccine since 2018.

Developed by the Meningitis Vaccine Project, a partnership between PATH and
the WHO with CDC support, MenAfriVac demonstrated dramatic success, largely
eliminating epidemics of serogroup A. Likewise; the CDC-led MenAfriNet
Consortium created an innovative partnership to enhance collaboration for
strengthening regional surveillance and generating high-quality data to inform
global immunization policy.

Goal 2 - Health Security: Protect Americans and populations across the globe
by strengthening global public health prevention, detection, and response

Disease knows no border; as a result, Americans' health is connected
integrally to the health of the rest of the world. National and economic
security is a requisite for global health security, and CDC must protect
Americans by working with countries to stop health threats at their origin.
The agency works collaboratively with a variety of partners, with special
emphasis on counterparts in Ministries of Health (MOHs) as well as regional
health organizations, to improve global health preparedness by enhancing local
capacity, systems, and infrastructure to prevent, detect, and respond to
epidemics, outbreaks, humanitarian crises, and other public health threats
whenever and wherever they occur. This increased capacity not only protects
Americans from the global spread of disease, saving lives and livelihoods, but
also helps drive and sustain improvement in local health outcomes.

_A2016 Reportexternal icon from the National Academies of Science, Engineering
and Medicine  estimated that the cost of pandemics in the 21st century could
cost U.S. $6 trillion, with an estimated annual loss of U.S. $60 billion from
potential pandemics. However, the same report emphasized the role investments
in preparedness and response can play in minimizing the impacts of pandemic
threats. _

Objective 2.1: Strengthen the capacity to prevent and detect disease outbreaks
and other public health threats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apply laboratory diagnostic tools, emerging technologies, modeling, and data visualization to better predict outbreaks, identify them early, and improve monitoring and reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Define and implement effective mitigation strategies to reduce the likelihood of outbreaks and limit the impact of public health threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Work with partners and countries to enhance networks, systems, and infrastructure to prepare for responses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Provide technical expertise and external funding to build in-country capacity for real-time surveillance and detection

2.1 Highlighted Focus Areas

 **A. Improve country capacity to detect and respond to outbreaks and prevent
future ones**  
In 2010, CDC began a collaboration with the Uganda Virus Research Institute
(UVRI) and the Ugandan Ministry of Health to establish a national surveillance
and laboratory network to detect, confirm, and respond rapidly to viral
hemorrhagic fever (VHF) outbreaks. Over the last 8 years, the program expanded
lab diagnostic testing for VHFs and other zoonotic diseases, improved clinical
recognition of cases, and used data collected from surveillance to inform
disease-control decision making. The program now has over 20 sentinel
surveillance sites throughout the country, which report to UVRI and the
Ministry of Health when suspect VHF cases are identified. Together with the
enhanced capability of VHF diagnostic testing and the ability also to screen
suspect cases for wide spectrum of VHF and other pathogens, the time between
clinical identification of a suspect VHF case and lab confirmation has been
shortened from an average of 2 weeks to 2.5 days. This reduced the chance for
additional person-to-person transmission of VHFs and has in turn reduced the
size and scope of outbreaks. Perhaps most importantly, the Uganda surveillance
program serves as a continent-wide resource for laboratory confirmation and
outbreak response support. It also provides expert technical assistance to
support Ministry of Health capacity building and training.

**B. Develop and apply non-traditional surveillance tools and methods for
real-time detection of emerging public health threats**  
The recent Zika outbreak reminded the world how vulnerable mothers and babies
are to emerging diseases. It also reminded the world that strong pregnancy and
birth defects surveillance systems play a vital role in detecting threats.
CDC's expertise in and efforts to strengthen birth defects surveillance and
infant follow-up systems domestically and globally have been critical to
answering key questions about the impact of Zika virus infection during
pregnancy. During the 2016 Zika Emergency Response, CDC developed an
innovative pregnancy and birth defects surveillance system to monitor rapidly
the impact of Zika virus on these populations. This system helped drive public
health action, quickly arming healthcare providers with information to
identify health problems and provide care for pregnant women and their babies.

As future threats emerge, CDC is better prepared to assist global partners by
providing tools, support, and technical expertise. Surveillance activities for
emerging threats may also involve expanded referral to services, improved
health outcomes, and enhanced data reporting across local programs and
organizations.

**C. Training a multidisciplinary, global workforce**  
Since its inception in 1980, CDC's Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP)
has trained over 11,000 disease detectives worldwide. With program engagement
in over 70 countries, CDC supports the development of a skilled public health
workforce around the world who can find and stop outbreaks at their source,
before they spread globally. These multidisciplinary "boots on the ground"
responders (clinicians, veterinarians, scientists, etc.) have actively
participated in responses to thousands of outbreaks of cholera, measles,
yellow fever, and other diseases, by identifying suspected outbreaks early and
raising standards for quality investigations.

More recently, CDC's Public Health Emergency Management (PHEM) Fellowship
provides critical training for professionals who work in public health
preparedness and response across the globe. Conducted at CDC headquarters in
Atlanta, the four-month program strengthens the ability of the international
community to respond to public health threats efficiently and effectively.

Through specialized classes, mentorship, and technical assistance, PHEM
Fellows learn the principles behind public health emergency management and the
functions of an emergency operations center. Since the 2013 inaugural class,
CDC has graduated 69 Emergency Management Specialists from 28 different
countries.

PHEM Fellows return to their home countries to lead emergency responses,
decreasing response times to deadly threats like avian influenza, dengue,
measles, and meningitis, increasing the world's health security by containing
these outbreaks at the source.

Objective 2.2: Strengthen the capacity for timely and effective response to
disease outbreaks and other public health threats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use training, mentorship, and simulations to improve global response capabilities of partner organizations and countries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Roster, train, and deploy highly skilled public health professionals across multiple disciplines to support effective and rapid responses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Collaborate with international stakeholders to promote adoption of international standards and strengthen surge capacity during global responses

2.2 Highlighted Focus Areas

 **A. Improving in-country emergency response capacity**  
In August 2017, CDC spearheaded a 5-day Public Health Emergency Management
(PHEM) workshop in partnership with the World Health Organization, the United
States Defense Threat Reduction Agency, and Public Health England. The
workshop brought together 55 emergency management staff members from across
Africa to learn from experts in the field about how to enhance the
coordination and response capabilities of their country's PHEM programs.

**B. Maintaining a rapid response capacity at CDC to respond to international
public health emergencies**  
The Global Emergency Alert and Response System (GEARS) serves as CDC's one-
stop shop for response needs, combining global detection, alert, and response
support activities.  GEARS is integral to CDC's rapid response activities and
works across the agency to coordinate emergency activities. Through its
standard operating procedures, GEARS helps to reduce uncertainty in emergency
response support. GEARS brings together the long-standing Global Disease
Detection Operations Center (GDDOPs), CDC's electronic surveillance and
analysis system for global threats, and the Global Rapid Response Team (GRRT),
CDC's deployment-ready and rostered experts. As a proven, critical agency
asset, GEARS event detection efforts detected over 340 public health events in
more than 100 countries in 2017. GEARS has rostered over 400 CDC deployers
that have provided over 17,000 person-days of response support since 2015. A
cross-agency effort, GEARS ensures experts are properly credentialed and
trained to avoid delays in deployment - a lesson learned from the West Africa
Ebola epidemic.

**C. Expanding and establishing global influenza surveillance, detection and
response**  
CDC works with international partners to prevent, control, and respond to both
seasonal and novel influenza threats.  Since 2004, CDC supports  more than 50
countries, all World Health Organization (WHO) regional offices, and WHO
Headquarters via direct bilateral support to build a network to better detect
and respond to influenza globally. CDC has increased virologic and
epidemiologic influenza surveillance capacity to report and characterize
influenza viruses, and has contributed to a large increase in the number of
countries participating in WHO's Global Influenza Surveillance and Response
System (GISRS) from 57 in 2004 to 146 in 2017.   CDC's international influenza
work also includes assessing the economic burden of disease, quantifying
vaccine effectiveness, and supporting introduction of vaccines among
populations at high risk of influenza illness complications.

Goal 3 - Public Health Science Leadership: Lead and influence the advancement
of global public health science and practice

CDC's greatest asset is its public health experts, including its
epidemiologists, scientists, laboratory specialists, health economists, public
health advisors, communicators, and behavioral scientists. The agency draws on
its unparalleled scientific knowledge and technical capacity to  address
known, new, emerging, and unknown threats globally. Leveraging the collective
strengths of its multidisciplinary staff and partners, CDC sets priorities and
drives innovation for global public health science, laboratories, and
programs. Serving as a model for and working collaboratively with partners and
countries across the world, CDC accelerates the implementation, evaluation,
and scaling of impactful, cost-effective programs, and provides the guidance
needed to improve health worldwide.

Objective 3.1: Develop and apply global public health scientific, laboratory,
and programmatic expertise

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Conduct and support science that increases the understanding of the epidemiology, pathogenesis, and ecology of emerging public health threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Develop and enhance the surveillance, laboratory, research, and programmatic capabilities of public health institutes and partner organizations to better prevent and respond to public health threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Invest in career development programs that further build the expertise of the CDC workforce and sustain relationships with CDC-trained experts and public health practitioners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apply CDC expertise globally through strategic collaboration with international stakeholders

3.1 Highlighted Focus Areas

 **A. Using CDC experts across the global to domestic continuum to save lives
and protect Americans**  
Using advanced molecular detection (AMD) technologies, CDC disrupts how
pathogens are detected and characterized.  The agency is adapting AMD
technologies, for example, to detect malaria resistance earlier and more
reliably, replacing decades-old parasitic disease diagnostics with state-of-
art methods, characterizing pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
influenza virus, or hospital-acquiredantimicrobial resistant organisms.  AMD
technologies are evolving rapidly, becoming less expensive and more automated.
This rapid progress may allow Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) to
"leapfrog" to advanced technologies.

**B. Serving as a model for other countries to build up public health science,
laboratories, and programs**  
After decades of support from CDC, in October 2010, the World Health
Organization (WHO) designated the Chinese National Influenza Center (CNIC) as
one of six WHO Collaborating Centers for Reference and Research on Influenza.
CDC's support for China CDC's influenza surveillance capacity contributed to
the detection of Asian H7N9 virus when it first emerged in China in 2013.

In 2013, virus sharing of H7N9 with the United States and other WHO
collaborating centers led to the development of the first candidate vaccine
virus for manufacturing pandemic vaccine to help protect the world in the
event the spread of H7N9 virus led to a pandemic. The bilateral support also
created capacity for China to mount a rapid and robust response to novel
influenza viruses that continues to this day. China's comprehensive influenza
surveillance network is now self-sustaining.

**C. Strategically using technology for workforce development**  
High-quality standards, safe laboratory testing, and a well-equipped competent
laboratory workforce are essential for producing reliable laboratory data.
Innovative technologies provide the laboratory workforce with additional
resources to improve their efficiency.

Examples of these technologies include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Broadcasting platforms used to deliver webinars on preparedness topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Robust programming software used to develop computer-based eLearning courses that are available 24/7 targeted to clinical and public health laboratory staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Creation of 3-dimensional laboratory environments to support learner interaction during eLearning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Acquisition of virtual reality equipment and software to support the development of virtual laboratory environments to assess practical laboratory skill competency.

Objective 3.2: Translate and disseminate evidence-based research and data into
global health guidance, policy, and programs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Inform global public health priority setting by engaging with key international players across sectors and within high, middle, and low income countries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Improve accessibility, usability, and translation of CDC and partner data to improve real-time surveillance, analysis, and evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Conduct and support implementation research that informs culturally appropriate intervention design, implementation, and evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disseminate findings in peer reviewed literature, international guidance documents, and through other visible communication channels

3.2 Highlighted Focus Areas

 **A. Data analysis to best inform programming in limited resource settings**  
CDC's One Health experts have worked with 20 countries to implement a One
Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization process that builds collaboration
across disciplines and sectors to focus limited resources on preventing,
detecting, and responding to those zoonotic diseases of greatest national
concern.  Countries with limited resources can focus on the top priority
zoonotic diseases (for example, rabies and Ebola) of greatest national
concern.  Participants include a wide-ranging group of people who protect
health-of people, animals, or the environment-and they identify the country's
top 5 diseases to target.  Prioritizing diseases means countries can more
efficiently build lab capacity, conduct disease surveillance, plan outbreak
response and preparedness activities, and create disease prevention strategies
to reduce illness and death in people and animals.  During the prioritization,
participants discuss action plans, roles, and responsibilities for how each
sector

will collaboratively engage in developing control and prevention strategies
using a One Health approach for the newly prioritized zoonotic diseases. After
the prioritization, scientists continue to collaborate with countries on their
priorities and strategies to help mitigate their greatest zoonotic disease
threats, implement and strengthen One Health approaches, and further the goal
of a world safe and secure from infectious disease threats.

**B. Rapid translation of data to improve public health outcomes**  
In December 2015, a yellow fever epidemic began in Angola and subsequently
spread to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).  Soon after cases began to
increase dramatically in Brazil.  More than 30 million doses of vaccine were
distributed quickly, depleting the global vaccine stockpile.  CDC experts  led
an emergency consortium of the World Health Organization, pharmaceutical
companies, and ministries of health to devise a bold proposal, based on
limited but solid evidence, to vaccinate using 20% fractional doses.

During a 10-day period, the DRC, under WHO guidance, vaccinated a record 7.6
million people at risk while CDC experts monitored for efficacy and side
effects.  The campaign was a success, the epidemic stopped, and lives were
saved.  The CDC study showing safety and efficacy of the fractional doses
established a critical option for future yellow fever epidemic responses.

**C. Supporting partners in using and translating Joint External Evaluations
as standard of practice**  
Since 2016, CDC has been involved in the standardized Joint External
Evaluation (JEE) assessments to evaluate a country's capacity to prevent,
detect, and rapidly respond to public health risks. As of May 2018, over 75
countries have completed JEEs, and CDC experts have participated in more than
60% of the evaluations.  Importantly, JEEs help countries develop costed
action plans, which can open the door for partnership by matching needs with
resources. As one of many examples, the Private Sector Roundtable (PSRT) and
Uganda  collaborated to identify areas of cooperation based on the JEE.
Workforce development was one of the areas identified, and because of this
cooperation, Johnson and Johnson  agreed to provide $250,000 to Uganda to
strengthen their workforce. By measuring progress on specific targets, JEE
results help us understand where and how countries are making improvements
towards meeting the International Health Regulations.

Objective 3.3: Drive innovation to accelerate new, more effective tools,
products, strategies, and technologies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Systematically identify and invest in innovative tools, research, and programs internally, domestically, and globally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fund, evaluate, and support the innovative work of partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rapidly disseminate emerging and innovative findings to be tested and scaled elsewhere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Integrate and share data to accelerate discovery, generate insights, and improve programs

3.3 Highlighted Focus Areas

 **A. Developing technologies to detect disease faster**  
CDC developed two new tests to detect Zika virus in human tissue. CDC
scientists used these tests to confirm the tissues were positive for Zika
virus. This evidence led CDC to conclude that Zika virus causes microcephaly
and embarked on a critical research to protect pregnant women in the U.S. and
around the world.

**B. Applying laboratory leadership through networks**  
CDC's Polio and Picornavirus Laboratory serves as a WHO Global Specialized
Laboratory and provides technical and programmatic assistance to the Global
Polio Laboratory Network. The Network consists of 146 WHO-accredited
poliovirus laboratories in all World Health Organization (WHO) regions. The
accuracy and quality of testing at Global Polio Laboratory Network member
laboratories is monitored through an annual accreditation program that
includes onsite reviews and proficiency testing.

CDC's laboratories provide critical diagnostic services and genomic sequencing
of polioviruses to help guide disease control efforts in many countries. This
includes implementation of improved laboratory procedures that have increased
sensitivity to detect and confirm new polio infection. Other new laboratory
procedures are helping countries overcome specific operational challenges,
enable more rapid detection of wild poliovirus (WPV), and allow for faster
response to importations or spread of virus. Additional efforts include
technical assistance to laboratories implementing environmental surveillance
for polio detection.

**C. Bringing innovative findings to scale**  
CDC has worked with university researchers to develop and test microneedle
patches to deliver vaccines like measles, rubella, polio, influenza, and
rabies.  The microneedle patch should improve the ability of CDC and partners
to get the measles-rubella vaccine to remote areas because the patch is more
stable at varying temperatures than the currently available vaccines and takes
up less space than the standard vaccine. Because microneedles dissolve in the
skin, there is no disposal of needles, reducing the risk of accidental needle
sticks. The measles patch is expected to be manufactured at a cost comparable
to the currently available needle and syringe vaccine. The patches also do not
require highly skilled health workers to administer.

In 2017, CDC experts collaborated with partners to evaluate the feasibility
and acceptability of using a novel Digital Microfluidics (DMF-ELISA) to detect
antibodies to measles and rubella.  This  new rapid diagnostic system could be
a useful tool to identify people at risk of contracting measles and rubella
living in remote settings without access to laboratories.  Findings could help
better target areas for vaccination campaigns and limit the spread of vaccine
preventable diseases.  CDC works closely with partners to strengthen
immunization systems in order to advance global health security, protecting
vulnerable populations from life-threatening vaccine preventable diseases.

CDC is working to implement point-of-care testing for measles infections in
collaboration with the WHO Global Measles and Rubella Laboratory Network.

# **ACHIEVING MORE THROUGH PARTNERSHIP**

CDC has a long-standing commitment to working closely with domestic and
international partners to set common objectives, implement comprehensive
public health prevention and response programs, and ensure that the resources
entrusted to CDC achieve the maximum impact by leveraging the unique roles and
mission of other organizations. In order to achieve its global health
priorities, CDC deploys innovative and proven models for multi-sectoral
engagement.  This includes working closely with international organizations
like the World Health Organization, the United Nations and the World Bank;
engaging counterparts in the Ministries of Health around the world to achieve
a range of health objectives; and collaborating with foundations, the private
sector and academic institutions to define, implement and evaluate a variety
of health programs.  CDC is strengthened by the diversity of its partners and
will continue to bring new partners together to innovate and accelerate the
work that the agency does around the world to protect the health of all
people.

### **CDC** **' s Global Health Partners**

Through its work with partners, CDC maintains a strong, effective global
health presence to protect Americans from major health threats wherever they
arise. Global partners expand the reach of the work CDC experts do to
strengthen critical public health services around the world--which helps
protect the health of Americans both at home and abroad. Our partners in
global health include a variety of valuable stakeholders and partners, such
as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Foreign governments including ministries of health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other U.S. government agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The World Health Organization and other international organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Academic institutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Foundations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nongovernmental organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Faith-based and community-based organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Businesses and other private organizations

![cdc-global-health-partners](/globalhealth/strategy/images/cdc-global-health-
partners-large.jpg)



# **CONCLUSION**

Our agency's mission to protect the health of persons in the United States is
based on a strong domestic public health system that is prepared to respond to
all threats, and a global footprint that supports our global health
commitments.  To succeed, we must work globally both to ensure the health and
safety of our own citizens and to help countries develop the health systems
and public health capacities they need to protect their  populations.  CDC's
Global Health Strategy outlines the agency's approach to achieving its global
health vision of a world where people - in the United States and around the
globe - live healthier, safer, and longer lives. To achieve the goals and
objectives outlined above most effectively, we must continue to implement the
strategies, prioritize activities and partnerships, and leverage resources,
investments and the work of other U.S. government agencies and global
entities.

We must adapt the way we work so that we as an agency are nimble and agile
enough to respond to disease threats no matter where they occur.  To help
ensure our global reach, CDC is establishing platforms with regional offices
to advance global health security and maintain a sustainable global presence,
allowing CDC to strengthen its ability to accomplish  its mission of
protecting Americans by responding more rapidly, efficiently, and effectively
to health threats wherever they occur.  We must strengthen and nurture our
relationships with existing partners like USAID, Department of State, and
World Health Organization, as we look to expand our partnerships with the U.S.
Department of Defense, Commerce, and the private sector so we truly work in a
multi-sectoral fashion.

The global health challenges we face - which threaten both our nation's health
and well-being and the global community - are significant.  The sheer numbers
of people who struggle against deadly diseases like HIV and TB; the always-
present threat of a pandemic influenza and emerging vector-borne viruses; the
growing resistance to front-line antibiotics; these are not easy problems to
solve.  However, the time to address these challenges is now.  As CDC Director
Dr. Robert Redfield has said, "Embracing the possible, we will do it
together."  We look forward to working with our partners to meet these
challenges and make a lasting impact in global health.

![cdc-global-health-conclusion](/globalhealth/strategy/images/cdc-global-
health-conclusion.jpg)



# **ANNEX - EVIDENCE OF CDC'S IMPACT IN GLOBAL HEALTH**

CDC's success as a world premiere scientific and data driven agency is
dependent on our core capabilities. This includes the development and
deployment of a world-class surveillance and data analytics system to tell us
what has happened, what is happening, and what may happen.  It requires CDC to
maintain our state-of-the-art laboratories, which serve as the reference
laboratories for the world.  CDC must recruit and retain our elite public
health workforce who stand ready to collaborate strategically with others to
solve the public health challenges of today and tomorrow.  Finally, the agency
needs to maintain the ability to respond quickly to outbreaks when they occur.
CDC's global health programs leverage these capabilities for meaningful
results.

### **Early Detection and Effective Responses to Outbreaks**

**Liberia Builds Health Security Capacity**  
During and following the 2014 Ebola response, CDC worked closely with Liberia
to develop public health capacity. This investment paid off in May 2017, when
Liberia reported 14 cases and 8 deaths from an unknown illness. Within 24
hours of learning of the outbreak, Liberia's Ministry of Health mobilized CDC-
trained disease detectives to investigate the report; this team was able to
quickly investigate the cases, and work with the CDC-supported national
laboratory to rule out Ebola. Through the close collaboration with CDC, the
government of Liberia sent samples to CDC where its premiere laboratories
identified the cause as meningococcal disease. The outbreak was controlled
within a matter of weeks. Through the CDC-supported disease detectives and
laboratory capacity, Liberia limited the outbreak to 31 cases and 13 deaths
due to the improved ability to prevent, detect, and respond to disease
threats.

**Providing Customized Solutions for Outbreak and Other Urgent
Investigations**  
CDC's Epi Info is a public domain suite of interoperable software tools
designed for the global community of public health practitioners and
researchers. It provides for easy data entry form and database construction, a
customized data entry experience, and data analyses with epidemiologic
statistics, maps, and graphs for public health professionals who may lack an
information technology background. Epi Info is used for outbreak
investigations; for developing small to mid-sized disease surveillance
systems; as analysis, visualization, and reporting (AVR) components of larger
systems; and in the continuing education in the science of epidemiology and
public health analytic methods at schools of public health around the world.
In support of recent regional outbreaks:

CDC developed a customized version of the Epi Info desktop application with a
focus on viral hemorrhagic fevers. Although not fully operational prior to the
2014-2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the customized application was still
used in all three affected countries to track cases and contacts. CDC is
currently using the application in laboratories for the 2018 Ebola outbreak in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

In response to the potential safety signal of the antiretroviral drug
dolutegravir and a possible link to neural tube defects, CDC collaborated with
the Kenya Ministry of Health rapidly leveraging existing birth defects
surveillance capacity. This work includes the development of a tablet version
of Epi-Info that tracks structural birth defects in real time.  Electronic
reporting has the potential to identify cases more quickly and reduce delays
in accurate diagnosis and reporting over the standard paper-based system.
These improvements will help inform the urgent discussion of the safety of
certain antiretroviral drugs for women living with HIV and their children.

**Vietnam Adopts Event-Based Surveillance as National Surveillance Standard**  
In Vietnam, CDC supported an event-based surveillance (EBS) pilot project in
six provinces from 2016-2017. The EBS pilot program is the first of its kind
in the country, actively engaging local community members, leaders, and health
care staff in the detection and reporting of outbreaks or unusual health
events. As of December 2017, the CDC project had trained approximately 9,000
heath workers in outbreak detection and reporting, resulting in more than
5,900 early warning signals of potential outbreaks reported. Each report was
screened and verified, resulting in confirmation of more than

420 infectious disease outbreaks, including foodborne outbreaks; hand, foot,
and mouth disease; mumps; diphtheria; and chickenpox. More than 400 of the
confirmed outbreaks were responded to in less than 48 hours. Due to the
pilot's success, the Ministry of Health has adopted the EBS framework as their
standard detection strategy.

**Indonesia Builds Laboratory Capacity to Detect Priority Pathogens**  
Indonesia, a GHS priority country, considered by many, to be a hotspot for
emerging pathogens did not have the capacity to diagnose or characterize
vector-borne viruses.  Beginning in 2012, CDC in partnership with the
Ministries of Science and Technology and of Health, established a state of art
molecular diagnostic laboratory for the identification and sequencing of
emerging viruses.  The lab, which is largely funded by GHSA, has confirmed the
first transmission of West Nile and Zika viruses in Indonesia and demonstrated
a high natural prevalence of Zika in children throughout the country.  Equally
important, the lab has trained more than 400 local staff in virus diagnostics
and biosafety, and has conducted continuing medical education courses for more
than 1,000 Indonesian health professionals.  Based on this success, in 2018
the Government of Indonesia spent more than US $1 million to expand the lab's
capacity.

**CDC Rapid Response Teams Surge to Address Yellow Fever Outbreaks**  
Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) investments allowed CDC's Global Rapid
Response Team (GRRT) to surge in response to a significant yellow fever
outbreak in Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in 2016. The
GRRT is a trained and ready multidisciplinary workforce with 50+ CDC staff on
call each month. In DRC, 2,000 samples were tested for yellow fever to help
target a vaccination campaign to contain the 2016 outbreak.

**HIV Laboratory Capacity Serves as Platform for Other Disease Detection**  
Laboratories play a crucial role at every step in responding to the HIV and TB
epidemic: from accurate diagnosis and testing, to effective treatment, care
and monitoring of the disease, to preventing new HIV infections. Strong
laboratory systems are critical to both controlling today's epidemics and
getting ahead of the curve for an effective response tomorrow. With partners'
support, CDC experts are implementing efforts on a number of fronts to help
bring laboratories around the world to international standards and enhance lab
capacity. These include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Establishing public-private partnerships to improve lab quality and strengthen the skills of lab personnel in communities severely affected by HIV and TB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Helping partner governments launch accreditation programs for labs including the creation of the first lab accreditation program in 2009.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Helping labs along the path to accreditation, by implementing the CDC-developed Strengthening Laboratory Management Toward Accreditation (SLMTA) program, which has supported more than 1100 labs in 52 countries worldwide.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Working with countries to develop national strategic plans for laboratories to better support their response to HIV, TB and other diseases.

These efforts to improve lab capacity and enhance lab quality to fight HIV and
TB are laying the groundwork for countries to respond to other diseases and
emerging global health threats.

### **STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS**

**Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI)**  
Since the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) was started in 1988,
(with CDC as one of the five  spearheading partners along with WHO, UNICEF,
Rotary International, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation ), the number of
countries with endemic poliovirus transmission has decreased from 125 to 3,
and reported polio cases have decreased from 350,000 in 1988 to 22 in 2017.
Through the transition planning process, CDC and its partners are working
systematically to merge best practices learned from years of fighting polio,
measles, rubella, and other vaccine-preventable diseases with lessons learned
from strengthening immunization systems and programs.

**Saving Mothers, Giving Life (SMGL)**  
Reductions in maternal and perinatal mortality are global development
priorities yet still present major challenges in sub-Saharan Africa. CDC
provided scientific leadership for the Saving Mothers, Giving Life (SMGL)
public-private initiative implemented from 2012-2016 in selected districts of
Uganda and Zambia with the goal of improving maternal and perinatal health in
high mortality settings. Through community and facility evidence-based
interventions and district-wide health systems strengthening, SMGL reduced
delays to timely and appropriate obstetric care.

Over the course of the 5-year SMGL initiative, population-based estimates
documented a 44% reduction in the SMGL district-wide maternal mortality ratio
(MMR) in Uganda (from 452 to 255 per 100,000 live births) and a 41% reduction
in Zambia (from 480 to 284 per 100,000 live births). The MMR in SMGL-supported
health facilities declined by 44% in Uganda and by 38% in Zambia. The
institutional delivery rate increased by 47% and 44% in Uganda and Zambia
SMGL-supported districts. The number of facilities providing emergency
obstetric and newborn care (EmONC) rose from 10 to 26 in Uganda, and from 7 to
13 in Zambia. SMGL's comprehensive district systems-strengthening approach
successfully improved coverage and quality of care for mothers and newborns.

The lessons learned from SMGL can inform policymakers and program managers in
other low- and middle-income settings where similar approaches could be
utilized to rapidly reduce preventable maternal and newborn deaths.

**CDC and WHO Collaborating Centers**  
CDC and WHO work collaboratively within the WHO Network of 55 Collaborating
Centers for Occupational Health to develop practical guidance and tools and to
provide technical assistance to upgrade international capacity to prevent
work-related diseases, injuries, and fatalities. CDC and WHO collaborate to:
1) strengthen the performance of health systems in occupational health; 2)
assess the effectiveness of a global database platform for monitoring worker
health globally; and 3) evaluate and improve the ability to identify workplace
hazards and apply controls globally and domestically. CDC contributes from its
research base to reduce occupational diseases, injuries and deaths in the
United States and globally, and benefits from achievements in other nations.

Viral hepatitis is a global health problem and CDC is a long-standing
supporter of the viral hepatitis prevention activities of the World Health
Organization . As a WHO Collaborating Center for Reference and Research on
Viral Hepatitis, CDC serves as a national reference laboratory for viral
hepatitis, an evaluator of new vaccination and test technologies, and a
convener of conferences on topics ranging from viral hepatitis prevention
priorities for persons who inject drugs to strategies for improving the
quality of hepatitis laboratory testing. This support has helped WHO develop a
Global Hepatitis Program; guidance for viral hepatitis immunization,
surveillance, testing, and treatment; and the first Global Health Sector
Strategy on Viral Hepatitis 2016-2021. Endorsed by the 2016 World Health
Assembly, the strategy targets the elimination of hepatitis B and hepatitis C
as public health threats by 2030.

CDC serves as a WHO Collaborating Centre for Sexually Transmitted Infections
Prevention (STI) providing epidemiologic, economic, and laboratory expertise.
As part of this work, CDC provides STI global burden estimates and economic
costs, training, and proficiency testing related to antimicrobial resistant
gonorrhea work and syphilis point of care test technology. CDC is
collaborating with WHO on global congenital syphilis elimination providing
technical assistance in validation and certification of this goal and working
with countries on progress towards this milestone. On December 1, 2017, PAHO
celebrated the validation of elimination of mother-to-child transmission of
HIV and syphilis in six Caribbean countries and territories. Since 2015, 11
countries have validated elimination of congenital syphilis of which nine are
in the Americas Region. In addition, CDC is working with WHO and the World
Bank on triple elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV, syphilis,
and hepatitis B in Africa.

**CDC One Health Program and Zoonotic Diseases**  
CDC's One Health experts have worked with 20 countries to implement a One
Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization process that builds collaboration
across disciplines and sectors to focus limited resources on preventing,
detecting, and responding to those zoonotic diseases of greatest national
concern.  Countries with limited resources can focus on the top priority
zoonotic diseases of greatest national concern (for example, rabies and
Ebola).  Participants include a wide-ranging group of people who protect
health-of people, animals, or the environment-and they identify the country's
top five diseases to target.  Prioritizing diseases means countries can more
efficiently build lab capacity, conduct disease surveillance, plan outbreak
response and preparedness activities, and create disease prevention strategies
to reduce illness and death in people and animals.  After the prioritization,
scientists continue to collaborate with countries on their priorities and
strategies to help mitigate their greatest zoonotic disease threats, implement
and strengthen One Health approaches, and further the goal of a world safe and
secure from infectious disease threats.

In 2015, Ethiopian human and animal health professionals identified anthrax,
brucellosis, and rabies as three of the top five zoonotic diseases of concern
during a One Health Zoonotic Disease Prioritization Workshop.  Canine rabies
is also a concern, with 2,700 human deaths each year due to the disease. Along
with selected regional labs, Ethiopian Public Health Institute (PHI) and the
National Animal Health Diagnostic and Investigation Center (NAHDIC) underwent
a 4-month assessment of laboratory bacteriological and serological sections
and brucellosis diagnostic capacity. CDC provided both public health
veterinary labs with necessary equipment, supplies, and training to enhance
their ability to conduct serologic and molecular testing. CDC staff are
working with the Ethiopian government to establish practical country-based
brucellosis guidelines for laboratories and clinicians.  CDC is working with
regional partners to conduct laboratory assessments that focus on bio-safety
and bio-security measures for anthrax at EPHI, NAHDIC, and regional labs. CDC
procured the necessary equipment and supplies and is training laboratorians,
establishing rabies testing capacity in three regions (Addis Ababa, Amhara,
and Tigray). Experts have coordinated with the Ministry of Health and Ministry
of Livestock and Fisheries to implement an integrated bite-case management
program for rabies surveillance and response. CDC is also helping the helping
the National Vaccine Institute to conduct potency testing of canine rabies
vaccine and increase animal vaccine potency to meet international standards.

**Developing a Public Health Workforce at Points of Entry to Control the
Spread of Disease**  
Ensuring that a country's air, sea, and land points of entry (POE) are
protected from health threats is a vital health security consideration, both
for the country itself, as well as for the protection of the international
community. In many countries, Ministry of Health staff stationed at POE (i.e.,
Port Health) who help detect and respond to ill travelers are in short supply.
To enhance a POE's ability to detect ill travelers, CDC trains non-traditional
public health partners, such as immigration, customs, security, airline, and
other staff who have direct contact with the traveling public to know what
signs and symptoms of illness of public health concern to look for and to know
how to notify medical authorities for further evaluation. This extension of
the public health workforce at a POE can help to prevent ill travelers from
boarding a conveyance or entering a country, thereby mitigating the risk of a
disease being imported or exported beyond a country's borders.

**Influenza Vaccine Program Development**  
CDC works with more than 120 partners both public and private to develop and
advance influenza vaccine program development. Using the broad surveillance
capacity built since 2004, foreign governments are able to provide evidence of
influenza circulation, seasonality, and population burden to establish the
need for strategic and evidence-based seasonal influenza vaccine programs and
policies.

**Global Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH)**  
In Sierra Leone, a country where 60 percent of the population does not have
access to potable water and where flooding and waterborne disease outbreaks,
such as cholera, can occur during the rainy season, CDC provided vital
training for waterborne disease outbreak detection and response. CDC trained
multisector partners, including those from the Sierra Leone Ministry of Health
and Sanitation (MoHS) and the Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR) as well as
community health centers using the Global Enteric Disease Outbreak Response
Capacity Building Toolkit developed by DFWED. The toolkit builds needed
capacity in epidemiology, environmental health, and clinical and environmental
microbiology. CDC will continue to deploy the toolkit, to strengthen workforce
capacity in GHSA countries. The toolkit offers a sustainable platform for
training by utilizing modules and an eLearning platform to prevent, detect,
and respond to waterborne outbreaks such as cholera.

### **Leveraging Surveillance and Data**

**Birth Defects Surveillance Improves Health Outcomes Globally**  
The Birth Defects Countries and Organizations United for Neural Tube Defects
Prevention (Birth Defects COUNT) is CDC's global initiative to reduce
mortality and morbidity caused by folic acid-preventable neural tube defects.
Neural tube defects are serious birth defects of the brain or spine and are a
major cause of death and lifelong disability worldwide. Birth Defects COUNT
focuses on increasing the availability of birth defects surveillance and blood
folate data to drive and monitor the effectiveness of prevention policies.
Through Birth Defects COUNT, CDC provides technical expertise and assistance,
convenes partners, and disseminates best practices to enable countries to
realize positive public health outcomes.

**Acute-Febrile Illness**  
Typically, healthcare workers in Uganda would presumptively treat a child
suffering from acute fever for malaria.  Beginning in 2016 at six regional
hospitals that are part of a GHSA-funded CDC partnership with the Ministry of
Health and the President's Malaria Initiative, doctors can order blood and
antibiotic susceptibility tests never before available to them on site.
During the first 18 months of this pilot initiative, more than 30,000
pediatric admissions were tested.  Only half had malaria but as many as 8%
yielded pathogenic bacteria, some of which were found to be drug resistant,
allowing the children to be successfully treated.  Other children were found
to be infected with mosquito-borne viruses and animal transmitted bacteria.
This GHSA project leverages prior surveillance investments to better track
causes of illness, generate antimicrobial susceptibility results, and improve
clinical care and policy planning.  The results build a foundation to enhance
capacity to detect, report, and rapidly respond to public health concerns in
Uganda.

**Community-Level Data to Predict Risk**  
In an increasingly globalized world, diseases whose geographic spread used to
be limited to well-defined areas can now spread to every part of the world
within 24 hours--often before disease surveillance systems can detect them.
There is thus increasing need to integrate population movement into
traditional epidemiologic methods, especially when the travel crosses an
international boundary. Human population movement is influenced by a number of
factors, including travel purpose, duration, season, and familial and
community connections. CDC subject matter experts have designed novel methods,
such as community level mapping to illustrate population movement patterns
into, through, and out of their borders. Ministries of health can use this
information to identify geographic areas with greater public health risk to
target their surveillance and response interventions and thus limit a
disease's potential to spread.

**South-East Asia New Born Birth Defects system**  
In South-East Asia, strong collaborations with the World Health Organization
South-East Asia Regional Office, has led to the development of a sophisticated
surveillance database for tracking newborn health, birth defects, and
stillbirths. In collaboration with ministries of health, CDC and WHO have
trained and built capacity among health care providers in 145+ hospitals from
seven countries that now contribute data to the South-East Asia New Born Birth
Defects system.  This system has the flexibility and the adaptability
integrate into country health information systems and has been expanded to
respond to emerging threats such as Zika Virus.

**Developing Surveillance Capacity to Improve Outcomes in Pregnancy**  
The capacity to conduct rigorous biomarkers surveillance is a critical
component of global public health infrastructure. One biomarker, red blood
cell (RBC) folate, can be used to identify groups of women at increased risk
for having a neural tube defect-affected pregnancy and to identify women with
folate deficiency associated anemia, both of which are significant causes of
morbidity and mortality worldwide. To improve monitoring of RBC folate in
populations and to estimate NTD risk, CDC has worked to establish harmonized
regional laboratories that use the microbiologic assay, the most reliable
method for assessing RBC folate. By training and equipping scientists from
low- and middle-income countries, CDC has developed regional expertise and
capacity in three continents.

**Violence against Children Surveys (VACS)**  
Violence underpins many public health problems and increases vulnerability to
other health problems. Violence against children leads to higher risks of
health and social problems, such as chronic disease, HIV, mental health
issues, substance abuse, and violence perpetration later in life. The economic
impact of violence against children is estimated at hundreds of billions of
dollars per year.

Many inter-related factors contribute to violence against children.  A variety
of institutions and sectors can play a role in preventing and responding to
it. Country-specific data and evidence-based approaches can inform how best
address violence against children at individual, family, community, and
society levels.

A first step in preventing violence is better understanding its magnitude,
nature, and consequences. Violence against Children Surveys (VACS) measure
physical, emotional, and sexual violence against girls and boys. CDC conducts
these surveys to guide programs and policies to prevent violence before it
starts. Findings from VACS provide reliable evidence to enable countries to
make better decisions using limited resources to develop, launch and evaluate
violence prevention programs and child protection systems.

VACS are nationally representative household surveys of children and young
adults aged 13-24 years. The data collected can inform steps already taken to
address violence against children and give insight into where these can be
strengthened or expanded. In addition, findings can help raise awareness of
the scope of the problem, support outreach and advocacy, and bring in new and
diverse stakeholders.

### **Research, Innovation and Technology**

**CDC Laboratories Play a Critical Role in Successful Global HIV Response**  
A core area of strength for CDC is the agency's laboratory expertise,
particularly around the development of diagnostics and testing quality
assurance.  For example, CDC is the only agency to independently evaluate and
certify the quality of rapid HIV test kits for use in PEPFAR-supported
countries.  To date, only 50% of rapid tests presented for evaluation have
passed CDC's rigorous testing. CDC also worked closely with commercial
partners to transfer the technology and development of a HIV rapid recency
testing kit for global use and implementation in PEPFAR-supported programs for
enhanced surveillance and prevention efforts. As a point-of-care device, the
rapid recency assay can diagnose HIV infection and distinguish recent from
long-term infection, all in one test.  This allows for urgent intervention
including counseling, contact tracing, and partner testing to prevent further
transmission. The rapid recency assay is commercialized by two companies and
is now widely used and implemented in more than 50 countries.  This assay also
plays an integral role in the implementation of population-based HIV surveys
that are utilized to measure the status of the national HIV response. Use of
this assay has shown significant decline of HIV-1 incidence in several
countries. Swaziland in particular has demonstrated a nearly 50% decline in
incidence in 5 years (from 2011 to 2016).

**Developing Novel Laboratory Assays**  
CDC developed two new tests that could detect Zika virus in tissues. CDC
scientists used these two new tests to confirm the tissues were positive for
Zika virus. This evidence led CDC to conclude that Zika virus causes
microcephaly and embarked on a critical research to protect pregnant women in
the U.S. and around the world.

**Research to improve domestic and global hiv prevention and treatment**  
CDC platforms in Kenya and Thailand collaborate through public-private and
U.S. government partnerships to conduct clinical trials of innovative
biomedical and integrated interventions to prevent new HIV infections, improve
sustained HIV viral suppression, and reduce HIV morbidity. Innovations along
the continuum from prevention to treatment are critical components of
strategies to achieve an AIDS free generation and eliminate HIV in the United
States, the host countries, and around the world. Research at the sites
focuses on evaluating alternative, novel HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP)
agents and delivery systems to optimize PrEP efficacy. Previous research
evaluated HIV vaccine candidates and novel diagnostics. Additional clinical
trials are focused on biomedical innovations to achieve long-term HIV viral
suppression among people living with HIV (PLHIV), towards a functional HIV
cure, and to reduce chronic morbidity and co-morbid infections among PLHIV.
Research currently focuses on men who have sex with men (MSM) and young MSM
(Thailand) and women, adolescent girls and PLHIV (Kenya); representing key at-
risk population in the United States, the host countries, and globally. The
research evaluates new interventions that can translate to improved domestic
and global HIV prevention and treatment. The sites also represent platforms of
skilled local staff capacity and response units that can quickly implement new
clinical trials in areas other than HIV, such as urgent and planned clinical
trials of vaccine candidates, novel antimicrobials for resistant agents, and
new diagnostics.

Page last reviewed: September 4, 2019

Content source: Global Health

home Global Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is CDC Doingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC and the Global Health Security Agendaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infectious Diseases Travel Fast and Far
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Driven Progress
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreak Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sustainable Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multisector Solutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Road Ahead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Immunization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV & TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Malaria & Parasitic Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Diseases & Threats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food & Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Where We Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Download Country Fact Sheets 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Our Strategy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Our Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Newsroomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Expertsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rebecca Martin, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hamid Jafari, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nancy Knight, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Monica Parise, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * W. William Schluter, MD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hank Tomlinson, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ray R. Arthur, PhD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory Science
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Measles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Polio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis (TB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Featured Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publication Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * In the News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Our Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Photo Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dear Colleague Letters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Photos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate Our Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CGH Accomplishments 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Impact by the Numbers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advancing Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreaks and Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ending the Burden of Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV Research, Policy, and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccination Research for Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria and Parasitic Disease Control in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Technology and Innovation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs & Opportunitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training, Fellowships, & Internships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Volunteering
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contracting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Students & Recent Graduates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Returned Peace Corps Volunteers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IETA Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Assignments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eligibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Application Process

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Facebook Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/fb-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Twitter Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/twitter-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Instagram Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/ig-icon.png)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![YouTube Icon](https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/homepage/images/icons/youtube-icon.png)
  
  

Social_govd Get Email Updates

Get CDC's free global health newsletter each week! Enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

