Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000882.htm    
                                Description: Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines are drugs you can buy without a prescription. They treat a variety of minor health conditions. Most OTC medicines are not as strong as what you can get with a prescription.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Using over-the-counter medicines safely

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000882.htm

# Using over-the-counter medicines safely

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines are drugs you can buy without a prescription.
They treat a variety of minor health conditions. Most OTC medicines are not as
strong as what you can get with a prescription. But that does not mean they
are without risk. In fact, not using the OTC medicines safely can lead to
serious health problems.

Here is what you need to know about OTC drugs.

## About OTC Medicines

You can buy OTC medicines without a prescription in:

    * Drug stores
    * Grocery stores
    * Discount and department stores
    * Convenience stores
    * Some gas stations 

When used properly, OTC medicines can help protect your health by:

    * Relieving symptoms such as pain, coughing, or diarrhea
    * Preventing problems like heartburn or motion sickness
    * Treating conditions such as athletes foot, allergies, or migraine headaches
    * Providing first aid 

## When Should you use OTC Medicines

It is fine to use OTC medicines for most minor health problems or illnesses.
If you are not sure, ask your health care provider or your pharmacist. Your
provider can tell you:

    * Whether an OTC medicine is right for your condition
    * How the medicine might interact with other medicines you take
    * What side effects or problems to watch for

Your pharmacist can answer questions such as:

    * What the medicine will do
    * How it should be stored
    * Whether another medicine might work as well or better

## What the Label can Tell you

You can also get information about OTC drugs on the medicine label.

Most OTC medicines have the same kind of label, and soon all of them will.
That means whether you buy a box of cough drops or a bottle of aspirin you
will always know where to find information you need.

Here is what the label will show you:

    *  **Active Ingredient.** This tells you the name of the medicine you are taking and how much is in each dose.
    *  **Uses.** The conditions and symptoms the medicine can treat are listed here. Unless your provider tells you otherwise, DO NOT use the medicine for any condition not listed.
    *  **Warnings.** Pay close attention to this section. It tells you if you should talk with your provider before taking the medicine. For instance, you should not take certain antihistamines if you have a breathing problem like emphysema. The warnings also tell you about side effects and interactions. Some medicines you should not take when using alcohol or taking other medicines. The label will also tell you what to do in case of an overdose.
    *  **Directions.** The label tells you how much medicine to take at one time, how often to take it, and how much is safe to take. This information is broken down by age group. Fully read the directions, because the dosage may be different for people of different ages.
    *  **Other Information.** This includes such things as how to store the medicine.
    *  **Inactive Ingredients.** Inactive means the ingredients should not have an effect on your body. Read them anyway so you know what you are taking.

The label will also tell you the medicine's expiration date. You should
dispose of it and not take it once that date has passed.

## Other Ways to use OTC Medicines Safely

You should:

    * Examine the package before you buy it. Make sure it has not been tampered with.
    * Never use medicine you have bought that does not look the way you think it should or that is in a package that appears suspicious. Return it to the place you bought it.
    * Never take medicine in the dark or without glasses if you are unable to see clearly. Always be sure you are taking the right medicine from the right container.
    * Always tell your provider what medicines you take. This includes prescription and OTC medicines as well as herbals and supplements. Some prescription medicines will interact with OTC medicines. And some contain the same ingredients as OTC medicines, which means you could end up taking more than you should. 

Also be sure to take steps to keep kids safe. You can prevent accidents by
keeping medicine locked up, out of reach, and out of sight.

## Alternative Names

OTC - using safely

## References

US Food & Drug Administration website. OTC drug facts label.
www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-information-consumers/otc-drug-facts-label. Updated
June 5, 2015. Accessed April 30, 2019.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Understanding over-the-counter
medicines. www.fda.gov/drugs/buying-using-medicine-safely/understanding-over-
counter-medicines. Updated May 16, 2018. Accessed April 30, 2019.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update: 04-30-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Over-the-Counter Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

