Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000535.htm    
                                Description: Talking to your health care providers about your medicines can help you learn to take them safely and effectively.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking medicines - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000535.htm

# Taking medicines - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Talking to your health care providers about your medicines can help you learn
to take them safely and effectively.

## Take Charge of Your Health

Many people take medicines every day. You might need to take medicine for an
infection or to treat aÂ long-term (chronic) illness.

Take charge of your health. Ask your health care providers questions and learn
about the medicine you take.

Know what medicines, vitamins, and herbal supplements you take.

    * Make a list of your medicines to keep in your wallet.
    * Take time to understand the purpose of your medicine.
    * Ask your provider questions when you do not know the meaning of medical words, or when instructions aren't clear. And write down the answers to your questions.
    * Bring a family member or friend to the pharmacy or to your doctor's visits to help you remember or write down the information you are given.

## Get Information About Your New Medicine

When your provider prescribes a medicine, find out about it. Ask questions,
such as:

    * What is the name of the medicine?
    * Why am I taking this medicine?
    * What is the name of the condition this medicine will treat?
    * How long will it take to work?
    * How should I store the medicine? Does it need to be refrigerated?
    * Can the pharmacist substitute a cheaper, generic form of the medicine?
    * Will the medicine create conflicts with other medicines I take? 

## Find Out How to Take the Medicine

Ask your provider orÂ pharmacist about the right way to take your medicine.
Ask questions, such as:

    * When and how often should I take the medicine? As needed, or on a schedule?
    * Do I take medicine before, with, or between meals?
    * How long will I have to take it?

## Know What to Expect With the New Medicine

Ask about how you will feel.

    * How will I feel once I start taking this medicine?
    * How will I know if this medicine is working?
    * What side effects might I expect? Should I report them?
    * Are there any lab tests to check the medicine's level in my body or for any harmful side effects? 

Ask if this new medicine fits in with your other medicines.

    * Are there other medicines or activities I should avoid when taking this medicine?
    * Will this medicine change how my other medicines work? (Ask about both prescription and over-the-counter medicines.)
    * Will this medicine change how any of my herbal or dietary supplements work? 

Ask if your new medicine interferes with eating or drinking.

    * Are there any foods that I should not drink or eat?
    * Can I drink alcohol when taking this medicine? How much?
    * Is it OK to eat or drink food before or after I take the medicine?

Ask other questions, such as:

    * If I forget to take it, what should I do?
    * What should I do if I feel I want to stop taking this medicine? Is it safe to just stop? 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider or pharmacist if:

    * You have questions or you are confused or uncertain about the directions for your medicine.
    * You are having side effects from the medicine. DO NOT stop taking the medicine without telling your provider. You might need a different dose or a different medicine.
    * Your medicine looks different than you expected.
    * Your refill medicine is different than what you usually get. 

## Alternative Names

Medications - taking

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. Taking medicines.
www.ahrq.gov/patients-consumers/diagnosis-treatment/treatments/index.html.
Updated December 2017. Accessed January 14, 2018.

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. Your medicine: Be smart.
Be safe. (with wallet card). www.ahrq.gov/patients-consumers/patient-
involvement/ask-your-doctor/tips-and-tools/yourmeds.html. Updated August 2017.
Accessed April 17, 2018.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medication Errors
    * Medicines
    * Over-the-Counter Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

