Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002208.htm    
                                Description: You can buy many medicines for minor problems at the store without a prescription (over-the-counter).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Over-the-counter medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002208.htm

# Over-the-counter medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You can buy many medicines for minor problems at the store without a
prescription (over-the-counter).

![Drugs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9414.jpg)

Important tips for using over-the-counter medicines:

    * Always follow the printed directions and warnings. Talk to your health care provider before starting a new medicine.
    * Know what you are taking. Look at the list of ingredients and choose products that have fewer items listed.
    * All medicines become less effective over time and should be replaced. Check the expiration date before using any product.
    * Store medicines in a cool, dry area. Keep all medicines out of the reach of children. 

Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should talk to their provider before
taking any new medicine.

Medicines affect children and older adults differently. People in these age
groups should take special care when taking over-the-counter medicines.

Check with your provider before taking an over-the-counter medicine if:

    * Your symptoms are very bad.
    * You are not sure what is wrong with you.
    * You have a long-term medical problem or you are taking prescription medicines. 

ACHES, PAINS, AND HEADACHES

Over-the-counter pain medicines can help with headache, arthritis pain,
sprains, and other minor joint and muscle problems.

    * Acetaminophen -- Try this medicine first for your pain. DO NOT take more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) on any one day. Large amounts can harm your liver. Remember that 3 grams is about the same as 6 extra-strength pills or 9 regular pills.
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) -- You can buy some NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen and naproxen, without a prescription. 

Both of these medicines can have serious side effects if you take them in high
doses or for a long time. _Tell your provider if you are taking these
medicines many times a week. You may need to be checked for side effects._

FEVER

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) help reduce fever in
children and adults.

    * Take acetaminophen every 4 to 6 hours.
    * Take ibuprofen every 6 to 8 hours. DO NOT use ibuprofen in children younger than 6 months.
    * Know how much you or your child weighs before giving these medicines. 

Aspirin works very well for treating fever in adults. DO NOT give aspirin to a
child unless your child's provider tells you it is OK.

COLD, SORE THROAT, COUGH

Cold medicines can treat symptoms to make you feel better, but they do not
shorten a cold. Taking zinc supplements within 24 hours of the start of a cold
may reduce the symptoms and duration of a cold.

 **NOTE:** Talk to your provider before giving your child any type of over-
the-counter cold medicine, even if it is labeled for children.

Cough medicines:

    * Guaifenesin -- Helps break up mucus. Drink lots of fluids if you take this medicine.
    * Menthol throat lozenges -- Soothes "tickle" in the throat (Halls, Robitussin, and Vicks).
    * Liquid cough medicines with dextromethorphan -- Suppresses the urge to cough (Benylin, Delsym, Robitussin DM, Simply Cough, Vicks 44, and store brands). 

Decongestants:

    * Decongestants help clear a runny nose and relieve postnasal drip.
    * Decongestant nasal sprays may work more quickly, but they can have a rebound effect if you use them for more than 3 to 5 days. Your symptoms may get worse if you keep using these sprays.
    * Check with your provider before taking decongestants if you have high blood pressure or prostate problems.
    * Oral decongestants -- Pseudoephedrine (Contac Non-Drowsy, Sudafed, and store brands); phenylephrine (Sudafed PE and store brands).
    * Decongestant nasal sprays -- Oxymetazoline (Afrin, Neo-Synephrine Nighttime, Sinex Spray); phenylephrine (Neo-Synephrine, Sinex Capsules). 

Sore throat medicines:

    * Sprays to numb pain -- Dyclonine (Cepacol); phenol (Chloraseptic).
    * Painkillers -- Acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve).
    * Hard candies that coat throat -- Sucking on candy or throat lozenges can be soothing. Be careful in young children because of the choking risk. 

ALLERGIES

Antihistamine pills and liquids work well for treating allergy symptoms.

    * Antihistamines that may cause sleepiness -- Diphenhydramine (Benadryl); chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton); brompheniramine (Dimetapp), or clemastine (Tavist)
    * Antihistamines that cause little or no sleepiness -- Loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, Dimetapp ND); fexofenadine (Allegra); cetirizine (Zyrtec) 

Talk to your provider before giving medicines that cause sleepiness to a
child, because they can affect learning. They can also affect alertness in
adults.

You can also try:

    * Eye drops -- Soothe or moisten the eyes
    * Preventive nasal spray -- Cromolyn sodium (Nasalcrom), fluticasone (Flonase) 

STOMACH UPSET

Medicines for diarrhea:

    * Antidiarrhea medicines such as loperamide (Imodium) -- These medicines slow down action of intestine and reduce number of bowel movements. Talk to your provider before taking them because they can worsen diarrhea caused by infection.
    * Medicines that contain bismuth -- May be taken for mild diarrhea (Kaopectate, Pepto-Bismol).
    * Rehydration fluids -- May be used for moderate and severe diarrhea (Analytes or Pedialyte). 

Medicines for nausea and vomiting:

    * Liquids and pills for stomach upset -- May help with mild nausea and vomiting (Emetrol or Pepto-Bismol)
    * Rehydration fluids -- May be used to replace fluids from vomiting (Enfalyte or Pedialyte)
    * Medicines for motion sickness -- Dimenhydrinate (Dramamine); meclizine (Bonine, Antivert, Postafen, and Sea Legs) 

SKIN RASHES AND ITCHING

    * Antihistamines taken by mouth -- May help with itching or if you have allergies
    * Hydrocortisone cream -- May help with mild rashes (Cortaid, Cortizone 10)
    * Antifungal creams and ointments -- May help with diaper rashes and rashes caused by yeast (nystatin, miconazole, clotrimazole, and ketoconazole) 

## Alternative Names

Medicines to have at home

## Images

    * ![Drugs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9414t.jpg)Drugs

## References

Garza I, Schwedt TJ, Robertson CE, Smith JH. Headache and other craniofacial
pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
103.

Habif TP. Atopic dermatitis. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
5.

Mazer-Amirshahi M, Wilson MD. Drug therapy for the pediatric patient. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
176.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 131.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Over-the-Counter
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OTCmedications_thumb.jpg)Over-the-
Counter Medicines _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

