Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000943.htm    
                                Description: Many people have unused or expired prescription or over-the-counter (OTC) medicines at home. Learn when you should get rid of unused medicines and how to dispose of them safely.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How and when to get rid of unused medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000943.htm

# How and when to get rid of unused medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people have unused or expired prescription or over-the-counter (OTC)
medicines at home. Learn when you should get rid of unused medicines and how
to dispose of them safely.

## When to Get Rid of Medicines

You should get rid of a medicine when:

    * Your health care provider changes your prescription but you still have some medicine left
    * You feel better and your provider says you should stop taking the medicine
    * You have OTC medicines that you no longer need
    * You have medicines that are past their expiration dates 

DO NOT take expired medicines. They may not be as effective or the ingredients
of the medicine may have changed. This can make them unsafe for use.

Read the labels regularly to check the expiration date of a medicine. Discard
any that have expired and those you no longer need.

Storing expired or unwanted medicines can increase the risk of:

    * Taking the wrong medicine due to mix-ups
    * Accidental poisoning in children or pets
    * Overdose
    * Misuse or illegal abuse 

## How to Dispose of Expired Medicines Safely

Disposing medicines safely prevents others from using them accidentally or
intentionally. It also prevents harmful residues from getting into the
environment.

Look for disposal instructions on the label or information booklet.

DO NOT FLUSH UNUSED MEDICINES

You should not flush most medicines or pour them down the drain. Medicines
contain chemicals that may not break down in the environment. When flushed
down the toilet or sink, these residues can pollute our water resources. This
may affect fish and other marine life. These residues can also end up in our
drinking water.

However, some medicines must be disposed of as soon as possible to reduce
their potential harm. You can flush them to prevent someone from using them.
These include opioids or narcotics usually prescribed for pain. **You should
ONLY flush medicines when it specifically says to do so on the label.**

DRUG TAKE-BACK PROGRAMS

The best way to dispose of your medicines is to bring them to drug take-back
programs. These programs safely dispose of medicines by burning them up.

Drug take-back programs are organized from time to time in most communities.
Or, your town may have special days when you can bring hazardous household
items such as unused medicines to a specific location for disposal. Contact
your local trash and recycling service to find out when the next event is
scheduled in your community. You can also check the US Drug Enforcement Agency
website for drug take-back information:
www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug_disposal/takeback/index.html.

Check with the take-back program as to what types of medicines they don't
accept.

HOUSEHOLD DISPOSAL

If you don't have a take-back program available, you can throw your medicines
out with your household trash. To do so safely:

    * Take the medicine out of its container and mix it with other unpleasant garbage such as kitty litter or used coffee grounds. DO NOT crush pills or capsules.
    * Place the mixture into a sealable plastic bag or sealed contain that won't leak.
    * Be sure to remove your Rx number and all personal information from the medicine bottle. Scratch it off or cover it with a permanent marker or duct tape.
    * Throw the container and pill bottles out with the rest of your trash. Or, wash the bottles thoroughly and reuse for screws, nails, or other household things. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Someone consumes expired medicines accidentally or on purpose
    * You have an allergic reaction to a medicine 

## Alternative Names

Disposal of unused medicines; Expired medicines; Unused medicines

## References

US Environmental Protection Agency website. Collecting and disposing of
unwanted medicines. www.epa.gov/hwgenerators/collecting-and-disposing-
unwanted-medicines. Updated September 12, 2018. Accessed December 17, 2018.

U.S. Food and Drug Administration website. Disposal of unused medicines: what
you should know.
www.fda.gov/Drugs/ResourcesForYou/Consumers/BuyingUsingMedicineSafely/EnsuringSafeUseofMedicine/SafeDisposalofMedicines/ucm186187.htm.
Updated November 6, 2018. Accessed December 17, 2018.

U.S. Food and Drug Administration website. Don't be tempted to use expired
medicines. www.fda.gov/drugs/resourcesforyou/specialfeatures/ucm481139.htm.
Updated March 1, 2016. Accessed December 17, 2018.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medication Errors
    * Medicines
    * Over-the-Counter Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

