

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Vital Signs

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Vaccinating Pregnant Women

Minus

Related Pages

![Doctor going over results with a pregnant patient](/vitalsigns/maternal-
vaccines/images/maternal-vaccines-header.jpg)

Vaccinating Pregnant Women

Protects Moms and Babies

![Women with influenza are more than twice as likely to be hospitalized if
they are pregnant.](/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-
factoid1.png)

![Women with influenza are more than twice as likely to be hospitalized if
they are pregnant.](/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-
factoid1-center.png)

Women with influenza are more than twice as likely to be hospitalized if they
are pregnant.

![Sixty-nine percent of reported whooping cough deaths occur in babies less
than 2 months old.](/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-
factoid2.png)

![Sixty-nine percent of reported whooping cough deaths occur in babies less
than 2 months old.](/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-
factoid2-center.png)

Sixty-nine percent of reported whooping cough deaths occur in babies less than
2 months old.

![Only 1 in 3 US pregnant women receive both influenza \(flu\) and Tdap
vaccines.](/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-factoid3.png)

Only 1 in 3 US pregnant women receive both influenza (flu) and whooping cough
vaccines.

Vaccinating Pregnant Women Protects Moms and Babies

pdf iconView Transcript media iconLow Resolution Video

## Overview

Influenza and whooping cough can be deadly, especially in a baby's first few
months of life. Vaccinating women against these diseases during each pregnancy
helps protect both them and their babies. Studies show flu and whooping cough
vaccines are very safe for pregnant women and developing babies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC recommends all pregnant women receive flu vaccine at any time during pregnancy, and whooping cough vaccine (Tdap) early in their third trimester, during each pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant women who get vaccinated pass antibodies to their babies, protecting babies in the first few months of life before they can get their own vaccines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations from healthcare providers are one of the strongest motivators for pregnant women to get vaccinated.

### Vaccines often offered, but many pregnant women and babies left
unprotected

![Vaccines often offered, but many pregnant women and babies left unprotected.
Women who report provider offer or referral for flu and Tdap vaccine: Most
\(75 percent\) women reported provider offer or referral for flu and Tdap
vaccine and 25 percent reported that they had not been offered or received
referral for flu and Tdap vaccine. Flu and Tdap vaccination coverage for
pregnant women: Most women reported receiving Tdap during pregnancy \(55
percent\) or the flu vaccine before/during pregnancy \(54 percent\). Some \(35
percent\) women reported receiving both vaccines.](/vitalsigns/maternal-
vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-infographic1.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Vaccines often offered, but many pregnant women and babies left
unprotected. Women who report provider offer or referral for flu and Tdap
vaccine: Most \(75 percent\) women reported provider offer or referral for flu
and Tdap vaccine and 25 percent reported that they had not been offered or
received referral for flu and Tdap vaccine. Flu and Tdap vaccination coverage
for pregnant women: Most women reported receiving Tdap during pregnancy \(55
percent\) or the flu vaccine before/during pregnancy \(54 percent\). Some \(35
percent\) women reported receiving both vaccines.](/vitalsigns/maternal-
vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-infographic1.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: CDC Internet Panel Survey 2019

### Women vaccinated during pregnancy pass protective antibodies to babies.

![Women vaccinated during pregnancy pass protective antibodies to babies.
Graphic of a pregnant woman and the fetus. About 2 weeks after vaccination,
the mother develops antibodies to influenza and whooping cough. Antibodies
enter the placenta and transfer to the baby.Graphic of a woman holding a baby.
The baby is born with antibodies that provide protection against influenza and
whooping cough for the first few months of life.](/vitalsigns/maternal-
vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-infographic2.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Women vaccinated during pregnancy pass protective antibodies to babies.
Graphic of a pregnant woman and the fetus. About 2 weeks after vaccination,
the mother develops antibodies to influenza and whooping cough. Antibodies
enter the placenta and transfer to the baby.Graphic of a woman holding a baby.
The baby is born with antibodies that provide protection against influenza and
whooping cough for the first few months of life.](/vitalsigns/maternal-
vaccines/images/maternal-vaccine-infographic2.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: Lancet, April 2017, https://bit.ly/2lNYsgZexternal icon.
F1000Research, January 2018, https://bit.ly/2mb2ws7external icon.

Problem

##### Not enough women receive flu and Tdap vaccines during each pregnancy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About 2 in 3 pregnant women do not receive both recommended vaccines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Babies less than 6 months old are at the highest risk of all children for hospitalization from influenza.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 38% of pregnant women who didn't get Tdap say they didn't know the vaccine was needed in each pregnancy.

The Way Forward

#####  **Healthcare Providers Should:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Discuss the benefits of vaccination with pregnant women early and often.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Strongly recommend flu and Tdap vaccines to pregnant women.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Offer flu and Tdap vaccines to pregnant women, or provide referrals to other vaccination providers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reinforce that vaccination is the best way to protect young babies from influenza and whooping cough.

##### **Pregnant Women Should:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Talk with their healthcare providers if they have any questions about flu and Tdap vaccines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Get a flu vaccine anytime during pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Get a Tdap vaccine during the third trimester of each pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * To learn more: https://bit.ly/2yoUXAGexternal icon

##### **Everyone Should:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Get a flu vaccine every year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Get a whooping cough vaccine as recommended.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be up to date on childhood vaccines: https://bit.ly/1cWkgteexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be up to date on adult vaccines: https://bit.ly/1hNagRoexternal icon

Flu and whooping cough vaccines protect against life-threatening diseases.

![Mother holding a baby](/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines/images/maternal-
vaccines-bottom.jpg)

Flu vaccination during pregnancy lowers risk of influenza hospitalization in:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant women by an average of 40%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Babies less than 6 months old by an average of 72%

Tdap vaccination during pregnancy lowers risk of:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whooping cough in babies less than 2 months old by 78%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hospitalization due to whooping cough in babies less than 2 months old by 91%

Issue Details

#####  **Related Pages and Resources**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vital Signs: Press Release - Low rates of vaccination during pregnancy leave moms, babies unprotected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vital Signs: Press Release - Tasas bajas de vacunacion durante el embarazo dejan a mamas y bebes sin proteccion [Spanish]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR): Vital Signs: Burden and Prevention of Influenza and Pertussis Among Pregnant Women and Infants -- United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Pregnancy and Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines for Your Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Pregnancy and Whooping Cough
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Pregnant Women and Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommended Vaccines for Adults

##### **Other Sites**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists- Immunization for Women websiteexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American College of Nurse-Midwives Consumer websiteexternal icon

##### **Science Behind the Issue**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science Clips

**For More Information**  
1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
Web: www.cdc.gov

**Centers for Disease Control and Prevention**  
1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta, GA 30333  
Publication date: October 8, 2019

Page last reviewed: October 8, 2019

Content source: Office of the Associate Director for Communication

home Vital Signs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Topics Covered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * All CDC Vital Signs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Digital Media Tools

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Get Connected

Social_round_rss RSS _MMWR_ RSS

Social_round_rss RSS VitalSigns RSS

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Download this Fact Sheet pdf[596 KB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Read the MMWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science Clips

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

image file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

