Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000157.htm    
                                Description: You have a central venous catheter. This is a tube that goes into a vein in your chest and ends at your heart. It helps carry nutrients or medicine into your body. It is also used to take blood when you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Central venous catheter - flushing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000157.htm

# Central venous catheter - flushing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have a central venous catheter. This is a tube that goes into a vein in
your chest and ends at your heart. It helps carry nutrients or medicine into
your body. It is also used to take blood when you need to have blood tests.

You need to rinse out the catheter after every use. This is called flushing.
Flushing helps keep the catheter clean. It also prevents blood clots from
blocking the catheter.

## What to Expect at Home

Central venous catheters are used when people need medical treatment over a
long period.

    * You may need antibiotics or other medicines for weeks to months.
    * You may need extra nutrition because your bowels are not working correctly.
    * You may be receiving kidney dialysis.

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to flush your catheter.
A family member, friend, or caregiver may be able to help you with the
flushing. Use this sheet to help remind you of the steps.

## Supplies you Will Need

Your provider will give you a prescription for the supplies you will need. You
can buy these at a medical supply store. It will be helpful to know the name
of your catheter and what company made it. Write this information down and
keep it handy.

To flush your catheter, you will need:

    * Clean paper towels
    * Saline syringes (clear), and maybe heparin syringes (yellow)
    * Alcohol wipes
    * Sterile gloves
    * Sharps container (special container for used syringes and needles) 

## How to Flush Your Catheter

Before starting, check the labels on the saline syringes, heparin syringes, or
medicine syringes. Make sure the strength and dose are correct. Check the
expiration date. If the syringe is not prefilled, draw up the correct amount.

You will flush your catheter in a sterile (very clean) way. Follow these
steps:

    1. Wash your hands for 30 seconds with soap and water. Be sure to wash between your fingers and under your nails. Remove all jewelry from your fingers before washing.
    2. Dry with a clean paper towel.
    3. Set up your supplies on a clean surface on a new paper towel.
    4. Put on a pair of sterile gloves.
    5. Remove the cap on the saline syringe and set the cap down on the paper towel. DO NOT let the uncapped end of the syringe touch the paper towel or anything else.
    6. Unclip the clamp on the end of the catheter and wipe the end of the catheter with an alcohol wipe.
    7. Screw the saline syringe to the catheter to attach it.
    8. Inject the saline slowly into the catheter by gently pushing on the plunger. Do a little, then stop, then do some more. Inject all the saline into the catheter. DO NOT force it. Call your provider if it is not working.
    9. When you are done, unscrew the syringe and put it in your sharps container.
    10. Clean the end of the catheter again with another alcohol wipe.
    11. Put the clamp on the catheter if you are done.
    12. Remove the gloves and wash your hands. 

Ask your provider if you also need to flush your catheter with heparin.
Heparin is a medicine that helps prevent blood clots. Follow these steps if
you do:

    1. Attach the heparin syringe to your catheter, the same way you attached the saline syringe.
    2. Flush slowly by pushing on the plunger and injecting a little at a time, the same way you did the saline.
    3. Unscrew the heparin syringe from your catheter. Put it in your sharps container.
    4. Clean the end of your catheter with a new alcohol wipe.
    5. Put the clamp back on your catheter. 

## Other Care

Keep all the clamps on your catheter closed at all times. It is a good idea to
change the caps at the end of your catheter (called the "claves") when you
change your catheter dressing and after you have blood taken. Your provider
will tell you how to do this.

Ask your provider when you can shower or bathe. When you do, make sure the
dressings are secure and your catheter site is staying dry. DO NOT let the
catheter site go under water if you are soaking in the bathtub.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you:

    * Are having trouble flushing your catheter
    * Have bleeding, redness, or swelling at the catheter site
    * Notice leaking, or the catheter is cut or cracked
    * Have pain near the site or in your neck, face, chest, or arm
    * Have signs of infection (fever, chills)
    * Are short of breath
    * Feel dizzy

Also call your provider if your catheter:

    * Is coming out of your vein
    * Seems blocked

## Alternative Names

Central venous access device - flushing; CVAD - flushing

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Aebersold M, Gonzalez L. Central vascular
access devices. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M,
eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York,
NY: Pearson; 2016:chap 29.

## Read More

    * Bone marrow transplant

## Patient Instructions

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bleeding during cancer treatment
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Central venous catheter - dressing change
    * Peripherally inserted central catheter - flushing
    * Sterile technique
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer Chemotherapy
    * Critical Care
    * Dialysis
    * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

