Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000491.htm    
                                Description: A central venous catheter is a tube that goes into a vein in your chest and ends at your heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Central venous catheters - ports

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000491.htm

# Central venous catheters - ports

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A central venous catheter is a tube that goes into a vein in your chest and
ends at your heart.

![Central venous
catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/21731.jpg)

Sometimes this type of catheter is attached to a device called a port that
will be under your skin. The port and catheter are put in place in a minor
surgery.

The catheter helps carry nutrients and medicine into your body. It will also
be used to take blood when you need to have blood tests. Having a port
attached to your catheter will cause less wear and tear on your veins than
just having the catheter.

## What is the Purpose of a Central Venous Catheter and Port?

Catheters are used when you need medical treatment over a long period of time.
For example, you may need:

    * Antibiotics or other medicines for weeks to months
    * Extra nutrition because your bowels are not working correctly

Or you may be receiving:

    * Kidney dialysis several times a week
    * Cancer drugs often

Your health care provider will talk with you about other methods for receiving
medicine and fluids into a vein and will help you decide which one is best for
you.

## Placing the Port

A port is placed under your skin in a minor surgery. Most ports are placed in
the chest. But they may also be placed in the arm.

    * You may be placed into a deep sleep so you do not feel pain during surgery.
    * You may stay awake and receive medicines to help you relax and numb the area so you do not feel pain. 

You can go home after your port is placed.

    * You will be able to feel and see a quarter-sized bump under your skin where your port is.
    * You may be a little sore for a few days after surgery.
    * Once you have healed, your port should not hurt. 

## Taking Care of and Using Your Port

Your port has 3 parts.

    * Portal or reservoir. A pouch made of hard metal or plastic.
    * Silicone top. Where a needle is inserted into the portal.
    * Tube or catheter. Carries medicine or blood from the portal to a large vein and into the heart. 

To get medicine or nutrition through your port, a trained provider will stick
a special needle through your skin and the silicone top and into the portal. A
numbing cream can be used on your skin to decrease the pain of the needle
stick.

    * Your port may be used in your home, in a clinic, or in the hospital.
    * A sterile dressing (bandage) will be placed around your port when it is used to help prevent infection. 

When your port is not being used, you can bathe or swim, as long as your
doctor says you are ready for activity. Check with your provider if you plan
to do any contact sports, such as soccer and football.

Nothing will stick out of your skin when your port is not being used. This
decreases your chance of infection.

About once a month, you will need to have your port flushed to help prevent
clots. To do this, your provider will use a special solution.

Ports can be used for a long time. When you no longer need your port, your
provider will remove it.

## When to Call the Doctor

Tell your provider right away if you notice any signs of infection, such as:

    * Your port seems to have moved.
    * Your port site is red, or there are red streaks around the site.
    * Your port site is swollen or warm.
    * Yellow or green drainage is coming from your port site.
    * You have pain or discomfort at the site.
    * You have a fever over 100.5Â°F (38.0Â°C).

## Alternative Names

Central venous catheter - subcutaneous; Port-a-Cath; InfusaPort; PasPort;
Subclavian port; Medi - port; Central venous line - port

## Images

    * ![Central venous catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21731t.jpg)Central venous catheter

## References

Mansour JC, Niederhuber JE. Establishing and maintaining vascular access. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 26.

Witt SH, Carr CM, Krywko DM. Indwelling vascular access devices: emergency
access and management. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 24.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Antibiotics
    * Cancer Chemotherapy
    * Dialysis
    * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

