Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000910.htm    
                                Description: Chemotherapy is the use of medicine to treat cancer. Chemotherapy kills cancer cells. It may be used to cure cancer, help keep it from spreading, or reduce symptoms.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Types of chemotherapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000910.htm

# Types of chemotherapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chemotherapy is the use of medicine to treat cancer. Chemotherapy kills cancer
cells. It may be used to cure cancer, help keep it from spreading, or reduce
symptoms.

In some cases, people are treated with a single type of chemotherapy. But
often, people get more than one type of chemotherapy at a time. This helps
attack the cancer in different ways.

Targeted therapy and immunotherapy are other cancer treatments that use
medicine to treat cancer.

Standard chemotherapy works by killing cancer cells and some normal cells.
Targeted treatment and immunotherapy zero in on specific targets (molecules)
in or on cancer cells.

## How Doctors Choose Your Chemotherapy

The type and dose of chemotherapy your doctor gives you depends on many
different things, including:

    * The type of cancer you have
    * Where the cancer first showed up in your body
    * What the cancer cells look like under a microscope
    * Whether the cancer has spread
    * Your age and general health 

## How Chemotherapy Works

All cells in the body grow by splitting into two cells, or dividing. Others
divide to repair damage in the body. Cancer occurs when something causes cells
to divide and grow out of control. They keep growing to form a mass of cells,
or tumor.

Chemotherapy attacks dividing cells. This means that it is more likely to kill
cancer cells than normal cells. Some types of chemotherapy damage the genetic
material inside the cell that tells it how to copy or repair itself. Others
types block chemicals the cell needs to divide.

Some normal cells in the body divide often, such as hair and skin cells. These
cells also may be killed by chemo. That is why it can cause side effects like
hair loss. But most normal cells can recover after treatment ends.

## Chemotherapy Drugs

There are more than 100 different chemotherapy drugs. Below are the seven main
types of chemotherapy, the types of cancer they treat, and examples. The
caution includes things that differ from typical chemotherapy side effects.

 **ALKYLATING AGENTS**

Used to treat:

    * Leukemia
    * Lymphoma
    * Hodgkin disease
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Sarcoma
    * Cancers of the lung, breast, and ovary 

Examples:

    * Busulfan (Myleran)
    * Cyclophosphamide
    * Temozolamide (Temodar) 

Caution:

    * May damage bone marrow, which can lead to leukemia. 

**ANTIMETABOLITES**

Used to treat:

    * Leukemia
    * Cancer of the breast, ovary, and intestinal tract 

Examples:

    * 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)
    * 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP)
    * Capecitabine (Xeloda)
    * Gemcitabine

Caution: None

 **ANTI-TUMOR ANTIBIOTICS**

Used to treat:

    * Many types of cancer. 

Examples:

    * Dactinomycin (Cosmegen)
    * Bleomycin
    * Daunorubicin (Cerubidine, Rubidomycin)
    * Doxorubicin (Adriamycin PFS, Adriamycin RDF) 

Caution:

    * High doses can damage the heart. 

**TOPOISOMERASE INHIBITORS**

Used to treat:

    * Leukemia
    * Lung, ovarian, gastrointestinal, and other cancers 

Examples:

    * Etoposide
    * Irinotecan (Camptosar)
    * Topotecan (Hycamtin) 

Caution:

    * Some can make a person more likely to get a second cancer, called acute myeloid leukemia, within 2 to 3 years. 

**MITOTIC INHIBITORS**

Used to treat:

    * Myeloma
    * Lymphomas
    * Leukemias
    * Breast or lung cancer 

Examples:

    * Docetaxel (Taxotere)
    * Eribulin (Halaven)
    * Ixabepilone (Ixempra)
    * Paclitaxel (Taxol)
    * Vinblastine

Caution:

    * More likely than other types of chemotherapy to cause painful nerve damage.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Chemotherapy drugs: how chemotherapy drugs
work. www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/treatment-
types/chemotherapy/how-chemotherapy-drugs-work.html. Updated February 15,
2016. Accessed December 19, 2017.

Collins JM. Cancer pharmacology. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH,
Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 29.

National Cancer Institute website. A to Z list of cancer drugs.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/drugs. Updated December 15, 2017.
Accessed December 19, 2017.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer Chemotherapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

