Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000156.htm    
                                Description: You have a central venous catheter. This is a tube that goes into a vein in your chest and ends at your heart. It helps carry nutrients or medicine into your body. It is also used to take blood when you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Central venous catheter - dressing change

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000156.htm

# Central venous catheter - dressing change

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have a central venous catheter. This is a tube that goes into a vein in
your chest and ends at your heart. It helps carry nutrients or medicine into
your body. It is also used to take blood when you need to have blood tests.

Dressings are special bandages that block germs and keep your catheter site
dry and clean. This article describes how to change your dressing.

## What to Expect at Home

Central venous catheters are used when people need medical treatment over a
long period.

    * You may need antibiotics or other medicines for weeks to months.
    * You may need extra nutrition because your bowels are not working correctly.
    * You may be receiving kidney dialysis.
    * You may be receiving cancer drugs.

You'll need to change your dressing often, so that germs don't get into your
catheter and make you sick. Follow your health care provider's instructions on
changing your dressing. Use this sheet to help remind you of the steps.

You should change the dressing about once a week. You will need to change it
sooner if it becomes loose or gets wet or dirty. After some practice, it will
get easier. A friend, family member, caregiver, or your doctor may be able to
help you.

Your provider will tell you when you can shower or bathe after surgery. When
you do, make sure the dressings are secure and your catheter site is staying
dry. DO NOT let the catheter site go under water if you are soaking in the
bathtub.

## Supplies you Will Need

Your provider will give you a prescription for the supplies you will need. You
can buy these at a medical supply store. It will be helpful to know the name
of your catheter and what company made it. Write this information down and
keep it handy.

When your catheter is put in place, the nurse will give you a label that tells
you the make of the catheter. Keep this for when you buy your supplies.

To change your dressings, you will need:

    * Sterile gloves
    * Cleaning solution
    * A special sponge
    * A special patch, called a Biopatch
    * A clear barrier bandage, such as Tegaderm or Covaderm

## Changing Your Dressings

You will change your dressings in a sterile (very clean) way. Follow these
steps:

    1. Wash your hands for 30 seconds with soap and water. Be sure to wash between your fingers and under your nails. Remove all jewelry from your fingers before washing.
    2. Dry with a clean paper towel.
    3. Set up your supplies on a clean surface on a new paper towel.
    4. Put on a pair of clean gloves.
    5. Gently peel off the old dressing and Biopatch. Throw away the old dressing and gloves.
    6. Put on a new pair of sterile gloves.
    7. Check your skin for redness, swelling, or any bleeding or other drainage around the catheter.
    8. Clean the skin with the sponge and cleaning solution. Air dry after cleaning.
    9. Place a new Biopatch over the area where the catheter enters your skin. Keep the grid side up and the split ends touching.
    10. Peel the backing from the clear plastic bandage (Tegaderm or Covaderm) and place it over the catheter.
    11. Write down the date you changed your dressing.
    12. Remove the gloves and wash your hands.

## Other Care

Keep all the clamps on your catheter closed at all times. It is a good idea to
change the caps at the end of your catheter (called the "claves") when you
change your dressing. Your provider will tell you how to do this.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you:

    * Are having trouble changing your dressings
    * Have bleeding, redness or swelling at the site
    * Notice leaking, or the catheter is cut or cracked
    * Have pain near the site or in your neck, face, chest, or arm
    * Have signs of infection (fever, chills)
    * Are short of breath
    * Feel dizzy

Also call the provider if your catheter:

    * Is coming out of your vein
    * Seems blocked, or you are not able to flush it

## Alternative Names

Central venous access device - dressing change; CVAD - dressing change

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Aebersold ML, Gonzalez L. Central vascular
access devices. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold ML,
eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York,
NY: Pearson; 2017:chap 29.

## Read More

    * Bone marrow transplant

## Patient Instructions

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bleeding during cancer treatment
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Central venous catheter - flushing 
    * Peripherally inserted central catheter - flushing
    * Sterile technique
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer Chemotherapy
    * Critical Care
    * Dialysis
    * Nutritional Support

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

