Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000185.htm    
                                Description: You are having chemotherapy. This is treatment that uses medicines to kill cancer cells. Depending on your type of cancer and treatment plan, you may receive chemotherapy in one of several ways. These    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000185.htm

# Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are having chemotherapy. This is treatment that uses medicines to kill
cancer cells. Depending on your type of cancer and treatment plan, you may
receive chemotherapy in one of several ways. These include:

    * By mouth
    * By injection under the skin (subcutaneous)
    * Through an intravenous (IV) line
    * Injected into the spinal fluid (intrathecal)
    * Injected into the abdominal cavity (intraperitoneal). 

Your health care provider may need to follow you closely while you are having
chemotherapy. You will also need to learn how to care for yourself during this
time.

Below are questions you may want to ask your provider.

## Questions

Am I at risk for infections?

    * What foods should I avoid so that I do not get an infection?
    * Is my water at home OK to drink? Are there places I should not drink the water?
    * Can I go swimming?
    * What should I do when I go to a restaurant?
    * Can I be around pets?
    * What immunizations do I need? Which immunizations should I stay away from?
    * Is it OK to be in a crowd of people? Do I need to wear a mask?
    * Can I have visitors over? Do they need to wear a mask?
    * When should I wash my hands? 

Am I at risk of bleeding? Is it OK to shave? What should I do if I cut myself
or start bleeding?

What over-the-counter (OTC) medicines can I take for headaches, the common
cold, and other illnesses?

Do I need to use birth control?

What should I be eating to keep my weight and strength up?

Will I be sick to my stomach or have loose stools or diarrhea? How long after
I receive my chemotherapy before these problems may start? What can I do if I
am sick to my stomach or have diarrhea often?

Are there any foods or vitamins I should avoid?

Are there any medicines I should keep on hand?

Are there any medicines I should not take?

How do I take care of my mouth and lips?

    * How can I prevent mouth sores?
    * How often should I brush my teeth? What type of toothpaste should I use?
    * What can I do about dry mouth?
    * What should I do if I have a mouth sore? 

Is it OK to be out in the sun? Do I need to use sunscreen? Do I need to stay
indoors during cold weather?

What can I do about my fatigue?

When should I call the doctor?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about chemotherapy

## References

American Cancer Society website. Chemotherapy.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/treatment-
types/chemotherapy.html. Updated February 16, 2016. Accessed November 12,
2018.

Collins JM. Cancer pharmacology. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH,
Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 29.

National Cancer Institute website. Chemotherapy and you: support for people
with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/chemotherapy-and-
you.pdf. Updated June 2011. Accessed November 12, 2018.

## Read More

    * Brain tumor - children
    * Brain tumor - primary - adults
    * Breast cancer
    * Chemotherapy
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Lung cancer - small cell
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Testicular cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bleeding during cancer treatment
    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Eating extra calories when sick - children
    * Oral mucositis - self-care
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer Chemotherapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

