Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007744.htm    
                                Description: A midline venous catheter is a long, (3 to 8 inches, or 7 to 20 centimeters) thin, soft plastic tube that is put into a small blood vessel. This article addresses midline catheters in infants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Midline venous catheters - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007744.htm

# Midline venous catheters - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A midline venous catheter is a long, (3 to 8 inches, or 7 to 20 centimeters)
thin, soft plastic tube that is put into a small blood vessel. This article
addresses midline catheters in infants.

## Information

WHY IS A MIDLINE VENOUS CATHETER USED?

A midline venous catheter is used when an infant needs IV fluids or medicine
over a long period of time. Regular IVs only last for 1 to 3 days and need to
be replaced often. Midline catheters can stay in for 2 to 4 weeks.

Midline catheters are now often used in place of:

    * Umbilical catheters, which may be placed soon after birth, but carry risks
    * Central venous lines, which are placed in a large vein near the heart
    * Percutaneously inserted central catheters (PICC), which reach closer to the heart, but also carry risks

Because midline catheters do not reach beyond the armpit, they are considered
safer. However, there may be some IV medicines that cannot be delivered
through a midline catheter. Also, routine blood draws are not advised from a
midline catheter, whereas they can be used from the other types of venous
catheters. It is possible to draw from a midline catheter if very gentle
pressure is applied and a specific technique is used.

HOW IS A MIDLINE CATHETER PLACED?

A midline catheter is inserted in the veins of the arm, leg, and occasionally,
scalp of the infant.

The health care provider will:

    * Place the infant on the examination table
    * Trained staff will help keep the infant calm
    * Numb the area where the catheter will be placed
    * Clean the infant's skin with a germ-killing medicine (antiseptic)
    * Make a small surgical cut and place a hollow needle into a small vein in the arm, leg, or scalp
    * Place the midline catheter through the needle into a larger vein and remove the needle
    * Bandage the area where catheter has been placed

WHAT ARE THE RISKS OF HAVING A MIDLINE CATHETER PLACED?

Risks of midline venous catherization:

    * There is a small risk for infection. The longer the midline catheter is in place, the greater the risk.
    * Bleeding and bruising at the site of insertion.
    * Inflammation of the vein (phlebitis).
    * The catheter may get displaced and come out of the vein if the infant moves a lot.
    * Fluid from the catheter may leak into the tissues leading to swelling and redness.
    * Very rarely, the catheter may break inside the vein.

## Alternative Names

Medial venous catheter - infants; MVC - infants; Midline catheter - infants;
ML catheter - infants; ML - infants

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Guidelines for the
prevention of intravascular catheter-related infections (2011).
www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/guidelines/BSI/index.html. Updated November 5,
2015. Accessed May 16, 2018.

Elbarbary M, Pittiruti M, Lamperti M. Pediatric ultrasound-guided vascular
access. In: Lumb P, Karakitsos D, eds. _Critical Care Ultrasound_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap13.

Witt SH, Carr CM, Krywko DM. Indwelling vascular access devices: emergency
access and management. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 24.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer
Chemotherapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CancerChemo_thumb.jpg)Cancer
Chemotherapy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

