

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Vital Signs

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)

Minus

Related Pages

![A child hugging a toy to his chest while sulking against a brick
wall.](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-header.jpg)

Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)

Preventing early trauma to improve adult health

![1 in 6 adults experienced four or more types of
ACEs.](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-factoid1.png)

![1 in 6 adults experienced four or more types of
ACEs.](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-factoid1-center.png)

1 in 6 adults experienced four or more types of ACEs.

![At least 5 of the top 10 leading causes of death are associated with
ACEs.](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-factoid2.png)

At least 5 of the top 10 leading causes of death are associated with ACEs.

![Preventing ACEs could reduce the number of adults with depression by as much
as 44%.](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-factoid3.png)

![Preventing ACEs could reduce the number of adults with depression by as much
as 44%.](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-factoid3-center.png)

Preventing ACEs could reduce the number of adults with depression by as much
as 44%.

Highlights this Issue

JAMA Viewpoint - Identifying and Preventing Adverse Childhood Experiences:
Implications for Clinical Practiceexternal icon

Can preventing childhood trauma improve adult health? November 2019, Vital
Signs

pdf iconView Transcript media iconLow Resolution Video

## Overview

Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) are potentially traumatic events that
occur in childhood. ACEs can include violence, abuse, and growing up in a
family with mental health or substance use problems. Toxic stress from ACEs
can change brain development and affect how the body responds to stress. ACEs
are linked to chronic health problems, mental illness, and substance misuse in
adulthood. However, ACEs can be prevented.

**Preventing ACEs can help children and adults thrive and potentially:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lower risk for conditions like depression, asthma, cancer, and diabetes in adulthood.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reduce risky behaviors like smoking and heavy drinking.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Improve education and employment potential.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop ACEs from being passed from one generation to the next.

### Preventing ACEs could reduce a large number of health conditions.

![Preventing ACEs could reduce a large number of health conditions: UP TO 21
MILLION CASES OF DEPRESSION, UP TO 1.9 MILLION CASES OF HEART DISEASE, UP TO
2.5 MILLION CASES OF OVERWEIGHT/OBESITY](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-
infographic1.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Preventing ACEs could reduce a large number of health conditions: UP TO
21 MILLION CASES OF DEPRESSION, UP TO 1.9 MILLION CASES OF HEART DISEASE, UP
TO 2.5 MILLION CASES OF OVERWEIGHT/OBESITY](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-
infographic1.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: National Estimates based on 2017 BRFSS; Vital Signs, _MMWR_ November
2019.

### Potential reduction of negative outcomes in adulthood

![The graphic shows three tables on the potential reduction of negative
outcomes in adulthood. The first table shows health conditions that could be
reduced by the following amounts with adverse childhood experiences
prevention: depressive disorder \(44 percent\), Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease \(27 percent\), Asthma \(24 percent\), Kidney Disease \(16 percent\),
Stroke \(15 percent\), Coronary Heart Disease \(13 percent\), Cancer \(6
percent\), Diabetes \(6 percent\), and Overweight/Obesity \(2 percent\). The
second table shows health risk behaviors. The potential reduction of negative
outcomes in adulthood for current smoking is 33 percent and heavy drinking is
24 percent. The third table shows socioeconomic challenges. The potential
reduction of negative outcomes in adulthood for unemployment is 15 percent,
earning less than a high school education is 5 percent, and not having health
insurance is 4 percent. ](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-infographic2.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![The graphic shows three tables on the potential reduction of negative
outcomes in adulthood. The first table shows health conditions that could be
reduced by the following amounts with adverse childhood experiences
prevention: depressive disorder \(44 percent\), Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease \(27 percent\), Asthma \(24 percent\), Kidney Disease \(16 percent\),
Stroke \(15 percent\), Coronary Heart Disease \(13 percent\), Cancer \(6
percent\), Diabetes \(6 percent\), and Overweight/Obesity \(2 percent\). The
second table shows health risk behaviors. The potential reduction of negative
outcomes in adulthood for current smoking is 33 percent and heavy drinking is
24 percent. The third table shows socioeconomic challenges. The potential
reduction of negative outcomes in adulthood for unemployment is 15 percent,
earning less than a high school education is 5 percent, and not having health
insurance is 4 percent. ](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-aces-infographic2.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

View Text Description

SOURCE: BRFSS 2015-2017, 25 states, CDC Vital Signs, November 2019.

Problem

##### Adverse Childhood Experiences impact lifelong health and opportunities.

###### ACEs are common and the effects can add up over time.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 61% of adults had at least one ACE and 16% had 4 or more types of ACEs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Females and several racial/ethnic minority groups were at greater risk for experiencing 4 or more ACEs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many people do not realize that exposure to ACEs is associated with increased risk for health problems across the lifespan.

The Way Forward

#####  **Healthcare Providers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anticipate and recognize current risk for ACEs in children and history of ACEs in adults. Refer patients to effective services and support.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Link adults to family-centered treatment approaches that include substance abuse treatment and parenting interventions.

##### **Employers Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Adopt and support family-friendly policies, such as paid family leave and flexible work schedules.

##### **States and Communities Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Improve access to high-quality childcare by expanding eligibility, activities offered, and family involvement.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use effective social and economic supports that address financial hardship and other conditions that put families at risk for ACEs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Enhance connections to caring adults and increase parents' and youth skills to manage emotions and conflicts using approaches in schools and other settings.

##### **Everyone Can:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recognize challenges that families face and offer support and encouragement to reduce stress.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Support community programs and policies that provide safe and healthy conditions for all children and families. http://go.usa.gov/xVvqD

Raising awareness about ACEs can help:

![Two families sharing lunch together outdoors.](/vitalsigns/aces/images/vs-
aces-awareness.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Change how people think about the causes of ACEs and who could help prevent them.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Shift the focus from individual responsibility to community solutions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reduce stigma around seeking help with parenting challenges or for substance misuse, depression, or suicidal thoughts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Promote safe, stable, nurturing relationships and environments where children live, learn, and play.

Issue Details

#####  **Related Pages and Resources**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vital Signs: Press Release - Preventing Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) to improve U.S. health [English]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vital Signs: Press Release - Como prevenir las experiencias adversas en la niñez (ACE) para mejorar la salud en los EE. UU. [Spanish]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ ( _MMWR_ ): Vital Signs: Estimated Proportion of Adult Health Problems Attributable to Adverse Childhood Experiences and Implications for Prevention -- 25 States, 2015-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Adverse Childhood Experiences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Division of Adolescent and School Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ACE Journal Articles by Topic Area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Essentials for Childhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _CDC 's Technical Packages to Prevent Violence_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Preventing Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs): Leveraging the Best Available Evidence pdf icon[3.6 MB, 40 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Essentials for Parenting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Health Impact in 5 Years: Earned Income Tax Credits

**Resources:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Preventing Adverse Childhood Experiences Training_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ACE Study Infographic 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ACEs Snapshot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Connecting the Dots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention in Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Making the Case: Engaging Businesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Boost Your Competitive Edge: Actions for a Healthy, Productive Workforce pdf icon[5.3 MB, 12 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * We Can Prevent ACEs Video

##### **Other Sites**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Academy of Pediatricsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Psychological Associationexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Child Abuse Americaexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Association of State and Territorial Health Officialsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ACEs Connectionexternal icon

##### **Science Behind the Issue**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science Clips

**For More Information**  
1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
Web: www.cdc.gov

**Centers for Disease Control and Prevention**  
1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta, GA 30333  
Publication date: November 5, 2019

Page last reviewed: November 5, 2019

Content source: Office of the Associate Director for Communication

home Vital Signs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Topics Covered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * All CDC Vital Signs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Digital Media Tools

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Get Connected

Social_round_rss RSS _MMWR_ RSS

Social_round_rss RSS VitalSigns RSS

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Download this Fact Sheet pdf[865 KB, 2 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Read the MMWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Science Clips

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

image PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

