Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002630.htm    
                                Description: Diclofenac sodium is a prescription medicine used to relieve pain and swelling. It is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Diclofenac sodium overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diclofenac sodium overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002630.htm

# Diclofenac sodium overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diclofenac sodium is a prescription medicine used to relieve pain and
swelling. It is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Diclofenac
sodium overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended
amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Diclofenac sodium can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Diclofenac sodium is a prescription medicine. It is sold under these brand
names:

    * Voltaren 
    * Arthrotec 
    * Solaraze 

Other medicines may also contain diclofenac sodium.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a diclofenac sodium overdose include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness
    * Headache (can be severe)
    * Movement problems
    * Nausea and vomiting (sometimes with blood)
    * Numbness and tingling
    * Ringing in the ears
    * Stomach pain (with possible bleeding in the stomach and intestines)
    * Rash
    * Seizures
    * Unsteadiness
    * Urination problems (little to no urine output)
    * Wheezing 

In very rare cases, severe breathing problems, coma, convulsions, and blurred
vision may occur.

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the patient's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat stomach pain, inflammation and bleeding, or breathing problems
    * Activated charcoal
    * Laxative
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach if vomiting contains blood
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Taking too much diclofenac sodium does not usually cause serious problems. The
person may have some stomach pain and vomiting (possibly with blood). However,
these symptoms will likely get better. In rare cases, a blood transfusion is
needed. Passing a tube through the mouth into the stomach (endoscopy) may be
required to stop internal bleeding.

## Alternative Names

Voltaren overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). In: Aronson JK,
ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier;
2016:236-272.

Hatten BW. Aspirin and nonsteroidal agents. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 144.

## Review Date 9/23/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

