Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002534.htm    
                                Description: Piroxicam is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to relieve mild to moderate aches and pains and swelling. Piroxicam overdose occurs when someone accidentally or intentionally takes too    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Piroxicam overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002534.htm

# Piroxicam overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Piroxicam is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to relieve
mild to moderate aches and pains and swelling. Piroxicam overdose occurs when
someone accidentally or intentionally takes too much of this drug. People with
kidney or liver disease are more likely to develop serious side effects or
worsening of their disease from NSAIDs.

As a group, and because of their common use, NSAIDs are responsible for more
serious drug-related side effects than any other class of pain relieving
drugs.

This article is for information only. Do NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Piroxicam

## Where Found

Piroxicam is also sold under the brand name Feldene.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a piroxicam overdose may include:

Airways and lungs:

    * Rapid breathing
    * Slow, labored breathing
    * Wheezing 

Eyes, ears, nose, and throat:

    * Ringing in the ears
    * Blurred vision

Nervous system:

    * Agitation, confusion, incoherence (not understandable)
    * Collapse
    * Coma
    * Convulsions (seizures)
    * Drowsiness
    * Headache (severe)
    * Unsteadiness, movement problems 

Skin:

    * Rash 

Stomach and intestines:

    * Diarrhea
    * Heartburn
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Stomach pain (possible bleeding in the stomach and intestines) 

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of product (as well as the ingredients and strength if known)
    * The time it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the patient 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through the vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Alternative Names

Feldene overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Piroxicam. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:795-798.

Hatten BW. Aspirin and nonsteroidal agents. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 144.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

