Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002598.htm    
                                Description: Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is a pain medicine. Acetaminophen overdose occurs when someone accidentally or intentionally takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acetaminophen overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002598.htm

# Acetaminophen overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is a pain medicine. Acetaminophen overdose occurs when
someone accidentally or intentionally takes more than the normal or
recommended amount of this medicine.

Acetaminophen overdose is one of the most common poisonings. People often
think that this medicine is very safe. However, it can be deadly if taken in
large doses.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Where Found

Acetaminophen is found in a variety of over-the-counter and prescription pain
relievers.

Tylenol is a brand name for acetaminophen. Other medicines that contain
acetaminophen include:

    * Anacin-3
    * Liquiprin
    * Panadol
    * Percocet
    * Tempra
    * Various cold and flu medicines

Note: This list is not all-inclusive.

Common dosage forms and strengths:

    * Suppository: 120 mg, 125 mg, 325 mg, 650 mg
    * Chewable tablets: 80 mg
    * Junior tablets: 160 mg
    * Regular strength: 325 mg
    * Extra strength: 500 mg
    * Liquid: 160 mg/teaspoon (5 milliliters)
    * Drops: 100 mg/mL, 120 mg/2.5 mL

Adults should not take more than 3,000 mg of single-ingredient acetaminophen a
day. You should take less if you are over 65 years old. Taking more,
especially 7,000 mg or more, can lead to a severe overdose problems. If you
have liver or kidney disease, you should discuss the use of this drug with
your health care provider.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain, upset stomach
    * Appetite loss
    * Coma
    * Seizures
    * Diarrhea 
    * Irritability
    * JaundiceÂ (yellow skin and whites of the eyes)
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Sweating 

Note: Symptoms may not occur until 12 or more hours after the acetaminophen
was swallowed.

## Home Care

There is no home treatment. Seek medical help right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Blood tests will be
done to check how much acetaminophen is in the blood. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation),and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT (computerized tomography, or advanced imaging) scan
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through the vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, including an antidote, n-acetylcysteine (NAC), to counteract the effects of the drugÂ 

People with liver disease are more likely to develop serious complications of
acetaminophen overdose. Overdose may be either acute (sudden or short-term) or
chronic (long-term), depending on the doses taken, and symptoms may therefore
vary.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If treatment is received within 8 hours of the overdose, there is a very good
chance of recovery.

However, without rapid treatment, a very large overdose of acetaminophen can
lead to liver failure and death in a few days.

## Alternative Names

Tylenol overdose; Paracetamol overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Paracetamol (acetaminophen) and combinations. In: Aronson JK, ed.
_Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier;
2016:474-493.

Hendrickson RG, McKeown MJ. Acetaminophen. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 143.

US National Library of Medicine; Specialized Information Services; Toxicology
Data Network website. Acetaminophen. toxnet.nlm.nih.gov. Updated April 9,
2015. Accessed February 14, 2019.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Medicines and
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MedicinesandChildren_thumb.jpg)Medicines
and Children _Read more_

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

