Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000482.htm    
                                Description: Analgesic nephropathy involves damage to one or both kidneys caused by overexposure to mixtures of medicines, especially over-the-counter pain medicines (analgesics).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Analgesic nephropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000482.htm

# Analgesic nephropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Analgesic nephropathy involves damage to one or both kidneys caused by
overexposure to mixtures of medicines, especially over-the-counter pain
medicines (analgesics).

## Causes

Analgesic nephropathy involves damage within the internal structures of the
kidney. It is caused by long-term use of analgesics (pain medicines),
especially over-the-counter (OTC) drugs that contain phenacetin or
acetaminophen, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as
aspirin or ibuprofen.

This condition frequently occurs as a result of self-medicating, often for
some type of chronic pain.

Risk factors include:

    * Use of OTC analgesics containing more than one active ingredient 
    * Taking 6 or more pills a day for 3 years
    * Chronic headaches, painful menstrual periods, backache, or musculoskeletal pain 
    * Emotional or behavioral changes 
    * History of dependent behaviors including smoking, alcohol use, and excessive use of tranquilizers

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms in the beginning. Over time, as the kidneys are
injured by the medicine, symptoms of kidney diseaseÂ will develop, including:

    * Fatigue, weaknessÂ 
    * Increased urinary frequency or urgency
    * Blood in the urine 
    * Flank pain or back pain
    * Decreased urine output
    * Decreased alertness, including drowsiness, confusion, and lethargy 
    * Decreased sensation, numbness (especially in the legs)
    * Nausea, vomiting 
    * Easy bruising or bleeding 
    * SwellingÂ (edema) throughout the body

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. During
the exam, your provider may find:

    * Your blood pressure is high.
    * When listening with a stethoscope, your heart and lungs have abnormal sounds.
    * You have swelling, especially in the lower legs.
    * Your skin shows premature aging.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count
    * CT scan of the kidney
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Toxicology screen
    * Urinalysis
    * Kidney ultrasound

## Treatment

The primary goals of treatment are to prevent further damage of the kidneys
and to treat kidney failure. Your provider may tell you to stop taking all
suspect painkillers, particularly OTC drugs.

To treat kidney failure, your provider may suggest diet changes and fluid
restriction. Eventually, dialysis or kidney transplantÂ may be needed.

Counseling may help you develop alternative methods of controlling chronic
pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The damage to the kidney may be acute and temporary, or chronic and long term.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from analgesic nephropathy include:

    * Acute kidney failure
    * Chronic kidney failure
    * Kidney disorder in which the spaces between the kidney tubules become inflamed (interstitial nephritis)
    * Tissue death in areas where the openings of the collecting ducts enter the kidney and where urine flows into the ureters (renal papillary necrosis)
    * Urinary tract infections that are ongoing or keep coming back
    * High blood pressure
    * Cancer of the kidney or ureter

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Symptoms of analgesic nephropathy, especially if you have been using painkillers for a long time
    * Blood or solid material in your urine
    * Amount of your urine has decreased

## Prevention

Follow your provider's instructions when using medicines, including OTC drugs.
Do not take more than the recommended dose without asking your provider.

## Alternative Names

Phenacetin nephritis; Nephropathy - analgesic

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Aronson JK. Paracetamol (acetaminophen) and combinations. In: Aronson JK, eds.
_Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier;
2016:474-493.

Parazella MA, Rosner MH. Tubulointerstitial diseases. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM,
Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 35.

Segal MS, Yu X. Herbal and over-the-counter medicines and the kidney. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 76.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

