Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007489.htm    
                                Description: Narcotics are also called opioid pain relievers. They are only used for pain that is severe and is not helped by other types of painkillers. When used carefully and under a health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pain medications - narcotics

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007489.htm

# Pain medications - narcotics

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Narcotics are also called opioid pain relievers. They are only used for pain
that is severe and is not helped by other types of painkillers. When used
carefully and under a health care provider's direct care, these drugs can be
effective at reducing pain.

## Information

Narcotics work by binding to receptors in the brain, which blocks the feeling
of pain.

You should not use a narcotic drug for more than 3 to 4 months, unless your
provider instructs you otherwise.

NAMES OF COMMON NARCOTICS

    * Codeine
    * Fentanyl -- available as a patch
    * Hydrocodone
    * Hydromorphone
    * Meperidine
    * Morphine
    * Oxycodone
    * Tramadol 

TAKING NARCOTICS

These drugs can be abused and habit-forming. Always take narcotics as
prescribed. Your provider may suggest that you take your medicine only when
you feel pain.

Or, your provider may suggest taking a narcotic on a regular schedule.
Allowing the medicine to wear off before taking more of it can make the pain
difficult to control.

Contact your provider right away if you feel you are addicted to the drug. A
sign of addiction is a strong craving for the drug that you can't control.Â

Taking narcotics to control the pain of cancer or other medical problems does
not itself lead to dependence.

Store narcotics safely and securely in your home.

You may need a pain specialist to help you manage long-term pain.

SIDE EFFECTS OF NARCOTICS

Drowsiness and impaired judgment often occur with these medicines. When taking
a narcotic, do not drink alcohol, drive, or operate heavy machinery.

You can relieve itching by reducing the dose or talking to your provider about
switching medicines.

To help with constipation, drink more fluids, get more exercise, eat foods
with extra fiber, and use stool softeners.

If nausea or vomiting occur, try taking the narcotic with food.

Withdrawal symptoms are common when you stop taking a narcotic. Symptoms
include strong desire for the medicine (craving), yawning, insomnia,
restlessness, mood swings, or diarrhea. To prevent withdrawal symptoms, your
provider may recommend you gradually lower the dosage over time.

OVERDOSE RISK

Opioid overdose is a major risk if you take a narcotic drug for a long time.
Before you are prescribed a narcotic, your provider may first do the
following:

    * Screen you to see if you are at risk for or already have an opioid use problem.
    * Teach you and your family how to respond if you have an overdose. You may be prescribed and instructed how to use a drug called naloxone in case you have an overdose of your narcotic drug.

## Alternative Names

Painkillers; Drugs for pain; Analgesics; Opioids

## References

Dowell D, Haegerich TM, Chou R. CDC guideline for prescribing opioids for
chronic pain â United States, 2016. _JAMA_. 2016;315(15):1624-1645. PMID:
26977696Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26977696.

Holtsman M, Hale C. Opioids used for mild to moderate pain. In: Benzon HT,
Raja SN, Liu SS, Fishman SM, Cohen SP, eds. _Essentials of Pain Medicine_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

Ritter JM, Flower R, Henderson G, Loke YK, MacEwan D, Rang HP. Analgesic
drugs. In: Ritter JM, Flower R, Henderson G, Loke YK, MacEwan D, Rang HP, eds.
_Rang and Dale's Pharmacology_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
43.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

