Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002542.htm    
                                Description: Aspirin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to relieve mild to moderate aches and pains, swelling, and fever.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aspirin overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002542.htm

# Aspirin overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aspirin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to relieve mild
to moderate aches and pains, swelling, and fever.

Aspirin overdose occurs when someone accidentally or intentionally takes more
than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine. This can happen in two
ways:

    * If a person accidentally or intentionally takes a very large dose of aspirin at one time, it is called an acute overdose.
    * If a normal daily dose of aspirin builds up in the body over time and causes symptoms, it is called a chronic overdose. This may happen if your kidneys do not work correctly or when you are dehydrated. Chronic overdoses are usually seen in older people during hot weather.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Acetylsalicylic acid

## Where Found

Aspirin is also known as acetylsalicylic acid and can be found in many
prescription and over-the-counter pain relievers, including:

    * Alka Seltzer
    * Anacin
    * Bayer
    * Bufferin
    * Ecotrin
    * Excedrin
    * Fiorinal
    * Percodan
    * St. Joseph's

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Airways and lungs:

    * Rapid breathing
    * Slow, labored breathing
    * Wheezing 

Eyes, ears, nose, and throat:

    * Ringing in the ears
    * Blurred vision 

Nervous system:

    * Agitation, confusion, incoherence (not understandable)
    * Collapse
    * Coma (lack of responsiveness)
    * Seizures
    * Drowsiness
    * Headache (severe)
    * Unsteadiness, problems moving 

Skin:

    * Rash 

Stomach and intestines:

    * Diarrhea
    * Heartburn
    * Nausea, vomiting (sometimes bloody)
    * Stomach pain (possible bleeding in the stomach and intestines) 

Symptoms of chronic overdose may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Slight fever
    * Confusion
    * Collapse
    * Rapid heart beat
    * Uncontrollable rapid breathing

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States.This hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions. This is a free and confidential service.

All local poison control centers in the United States use this national
number. You should call if you have any questions about poisoning or poison
prevention. It does NOT need to be an emergency. You can call for any reason,
24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through the vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms

Other medicines may be given through a vein, including potassium salt and
sodium bicarbonate, which helps the body remove aspirin that has already been
digested.

If these treatments do not work or the overdose is extremely severe,
hemodialysis (kidney machine) may be needed to reverse the condition.

In rare cases, a breathing machine may be needed. Many poisoning experts think
this causes more harm than good, so it is only used as a very last resort.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A toxic dose of aspirin is 200 to 300 mg/kg (milligrams per kilogram of body
weight), and ingestion of 500 mg/kg is potentially lethal. In chronic overdose
a lower level of aspirin in the body can result in serious illness. Much lower
levels can affect children.

If treatment is delayed or the overdose is large enough, symptoms will
continue to get worse. Breathing becomes extremely fast or may stop. Seizures,
high fevers, or death may occur.

How well you do depends greatly on how much aspirin your body has absorbed and
how much is flowing through your blood. If you take a large amount of aspirin
but come quickly to the emergency room, treatments may help keep your blood
levels of aspirin very low. If you do not get to the emergency room fast
enough, the level of aspirin in your blood can become dangerously high.

## Alternative Names

Acetylsalicylic acid overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Acetylsalicylic acid. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects
of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:26-52.

Hatten BW. Aspirin and nonsteroidal agents. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 144.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

