Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002649.htm    
                                Description: Fenoprofen calcium is a type of medicine called a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug.Â It is a prescription pain medicine used to relieve symptoms of arthritis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fenoprofen calcium overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002649.htm

# Fenoprofen calcium overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fenoprofen calcium is a type of medicine called a nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drug.Â It is a prescription pain medicine used to relieve
symptoms of arthritis.

Fenoprofen calcium overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or
recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

FenoprofenÂ can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Fenoprofen calcium is found in medicines with these names:

    * Fenoprofen
    * Nalfon
    * Naprofen

Other medicines may also contain fenoprofen calcium.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of a fenoprofen calcium overdose in different parts of the
body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGSÂ

    * Slow and laboredÂ breathing

EYES AND EARS

    * Blurred vision
    * Ringing in the ears

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Little or no urine output

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting (sometimes with blood)
    * Stomach pain

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Increased heart rate

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Agitation
    * Confusion
    * Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)
    * Seizures
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness
    * Delirium (person is not making sense)
    * Movement problems
    * Numbness and tingling
    * Unsteadiness
    * Severe headache

SKIN

    * Rash

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to do so.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.Â

Tests that may done include:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Camera down the throat to look for burns in the esophagus and the stomachÂ   

    * Chest x-ray  

    * ECG (electrocardiogram or heart tracing)  

Treatment may include:

    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Laxative
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach if vomiting contains blood
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)  

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Taking too much diclofenac sodium does not usually cause serious problems. The
person may have some stomach pain and vomiting (possibly with blood). However,
these symptoms will likely get better. In rare cases, a blood transfusion may
be needed. Passing a tube through the mouth into the stomach (endoscopy) may
be required to stop internal bleeding.

In rare cases, there can be ringing in the ears and a bad headache, but these
symptoms will likely pass as well.

If kidney damage is severe, dialysis (kidney machine) may be needed until
kidney function returns. In some cases, the damage is permanent.

A large overdose can cause serious damage to children and adults. Death may
occur.

## Alternative Names

Nalfon overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). In: Aronson JK,
ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier;
2016:236-272.

Hatten BW. Aspirin and nonsteroidal agents. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 144.

## Review Date 10/7/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

