Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002537.htm    
                                Description: Propoxyphene is medicine used to relieve pain. It is one of a number of chemicals called opioids or opiates, which were originally derived from the poppy plant and used for pain relief or their calming    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Propoxyphene overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002537.htm

# Propoxyphene overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Propoxyphene is medicine used to relieve pain. It is one of a number of
chemicals called opioids or opiates, which were originally derived from the
poppy plant and used for pain relief or their calming effects Propoxyphene
overdose occurs when someone intentionally or accidentally takes too much of
this medicine.

The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) took this drug off the market in
December 2010 because of the potential to cause deadly heart disturbances.

This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of
an actual overdose. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an actual overdose. If
you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local emergency number (such
as 911), or your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Propoxyphene

## Where Found

Brand names include:

    * Darvocet
    * Darvon
    * Darvon-N
    * Dolene

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

Eyes, ears, nose, and throat:

    * Hearing loss
    * Pinpoint pupils 

Heart and blood vessels:

    * Heart rhythm disturbances
    * Low blood pressure
    * Weak pulse 

Lungs:

    * Breathing slow, labored, or shallow
    * No breathing 

Muscles:

    * Muscle spasticity
    * Muscle damage from being immobile while in a coma 

Nervous system:

    * Coma
    * Confusion
    * Drowsiness
    * Seizures

Skin:

    * Cyanosis (blue fingernails or lips)
    * Jaundice (turning yellow)
    * Rash 

Stomach and intestines:

    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Spasms of the stomach or intestines (abdominal cramps) 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by Poison Control or a health care professional.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the product (ingredients and strengths if known)
    * The time it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Symptoms will be treated as appropriate.

The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation),and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through the vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, including naloxone, an antidote to reverse the effects of the poison; many doses may be needed 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the person does depends on the severity of the overdose and how
quickly treatment is received. If the proper narcotic antagonist (drug to
counteract the effects of narcotics) can be given, recovery from an acute
overdose occurs within 24 to 48 hours. However, if there has been prolonged
coma and shock (damage to multiple internal organs), a more serious outcome is
possible.

## Alternative Names

Propoxyphene hydrochloride; Dextropropoxyphene

## References

Aronson JK. Dextropropoxyphene. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:906-908.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

