Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002519.htm    
                                Description: Pentazocine is a medicine used to treat moderate to severe pain. It is one of a number of chemicals called opioids or opiates, which were originally derived from the poppy plant and used for pain relief    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pentazocine overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002519.htm

# Pentazocine overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pentazocine is a medicine used to treat moderate to severe pain. It is one of
a number of chemicals called opioids or opiates, which were originally derived
from the poppy plant and used for pain relief or their calming effects.
Pentazocine overdose occurs when someone accidentally or intentionally takes
more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine.

This article is for information only. Do NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Pentazocine

## Where Found

Pentazocine is found in:

    * Pentazocine-naloxone HCL

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include.

Eyes, ears, nose, and throat:

    * Hearing loss
    * Pinpoint pupils 

Heart and blood vessels:

    * Heart rhythm disturbances
    * Low blood pressure
    * Weak pulse 

Lungs:

    * Breathing slow, labored, or shallow
    * No breathing 

Muscles:

    * Muscle spasticity
    * Muscle damage from being immobile while in a coma 

Nervous system:

    * Coma (lack of responsiveness)
    * Confusion
    * Drowsiness
    * Seizures 

Skin:

    * Cyanosis (blue fingernails or lips)
    * Jaundice (turning yellow)
    * Rash 

Stomach and intestines:

    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Spasms of the stomach or intestines (abdominal cramps) 

Pentazocine is a weak opioid. It may cause opioid withdrawal symptoms in
people who use it as a substitute for stronger formulations. Symptoms of
withdrawal may include:

    * Anxiety and restlessness
    * Diarrhea
    * Goose bumps
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Vomiting 

## Home Care

Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by Poison Control or a health care professional.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of product (as well as the ingredients and strength, if known)
    * The time it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing, and blood pressure.

Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal.
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator).
    * Blood and urine tests.
    * Chest x-ray.
    * ECG (electrocardiogram), or heart tracing.
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV).
    * Laxative.
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, including naloxone, an antidote to help reverse the effect of the poison; multiple doses may be needed. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pentazocine overdose is usually much less serious than other opioid medicine
overdoses, such as heroin and morphine. In rare cases, antidotes need to be
used. There may be a more serious outcome if there has been prolonged coma and
shock (damage to multiple internal organs). Although deaths have been
reported, most people who receive prompt treatment recover well.

## References

Aronson JK. Pentazocine. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:620-622.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

