Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000772.htm    
                                Description: Taking ibuprofen can help children feel better when they have colds or minor injuries. As with all drugs, it is important to give children the correct dose. Ibuprofen is safe when taken as directed. But    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ibuprofen dosing for children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000772.htm

# Ibuprofen dosing for children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Taking ibuprofen can help children feel better when they have colds or minor
injuries. As with all drugs, it is important to give children the correct
dose. Ibuprofen is safe when taken as directed. But taking too much of this
medicine can be harmful.

## How Ibuprofen can Help Your Child

Ibuprofen is a type of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). It can
help:

    * Reduce aches, pain, sore throat, or fever in children with a cold or the flu
    * Relieve headaches or toothaches
    * Reduce pain and swelling from an injury or broken bone 

## Proper Dosing

Ibuprofen can be taken as liquid or chewable tablets. To give the correct
dose, you need to know your child's weight.

You also need to know how much ibuprofen is in a tablet, teaspoon (tsp), 1.25
milliliters (mL), or 5 mL of the product you are using. You can read the label
to find out.

    * For chewable tablets, the label will tell you how many milligrams (mg) are found in each tablet, for example 50 mg per tablet.
    * For liquids, the label will tell you how many mg are found in 1 tsp, in 1.25 mL, or in 5mL. For example, the label may read 100 mg/1 tsp, 50 mg/1.25 mL, or 100 mg/5 mL. 

For syrups, you need some type of dosing syringe. It may come with the
medicine, or you can ask your pharmacist. Make sure to clean it out after
every usage.

 **If your child weighs 12 to 17 pounds (lbs) or 5.4 to 7.7 kilograms (kg):**

    * For infant drops that say 50mg/1.25 mL on the label, give a 1.25 mL dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 teaspoon (tsp) on the label, give a Â½ tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 2.5 mL dose. 

**If your child weighs 18 to 23 lbs or 8 to 10 kg:**

    * For infant drops that say 50mg/1.25 mL on the label, give a 1.875 mL dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 tsp on the label, give a Â¾ tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 4 mL dose. 

**If your child weighs 24 to 35 lbs or 10.5 to 15.5 kg:**

    * For infant drops that say 50mg/1.25 mL on the label, give a 2.5 mL dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 tsp on the label, give a 1 tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 5 mL dose.
    * For chewable tablets that say 50 mg tablets on the label, give 2 tablets. 

**If your child weighs 36 to 47 lbs or 16 to 21 kg:**

    * For infant drops that say 50mg/1.25 mL on the label, give a 3.75 mL dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 tsp on the label, give a 1Â½ tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 7.5 mL dose.
    * For chewable tablets that say 50 mg tablets on the label, give 3 tablets. 

**If your child weighs 48 to 59 lbs or 21.5 to 26.5 kg:**

    * For infant drops that say 50mg/1.25 mL on the label, give a 5 mL dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 tsp on the label, give a 2 tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 10 mL dose.
    * For chewable tablets that say 50 mg tablets on the label, give 4 tablets.
    * For junior-strength tablets that say 100 mg tablets on the label, give 2 tablets. 

**If your child weighs 60 to 71 lbs or 27 to 32 kg:**

    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 tsp on the label, give a 2Â½ tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 12.5 mL dose.
    * For chewable tablets that say 50 mg tablets on the label, give 5 tablets.
    * For junior-strength tablets that say 100 mg tablets on the label, give 2Â½ tablets. 

**If your child weighs 72 to 95 lbs or 32.5 to 43 kg:**

    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 tsp on the label, give a 3 tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 15 mL dose.
    * For chewable tablets that say 50 mg tablets on the label, give 6 tablets.
    * For junior-strength tablets that say 100 mg tablets on the label, give 3 tablets. 

**If your child weighs 96 lbs or 43.5 kg or more:**

    * For liquid that says 100 mg/1 tsp on the label, give a 4 tsp dose.
    * For liquid that says 100 mg/5 mL on the label, give a 20 mL dose.
    * For chewable tablets that say 50 mg tablets on the label, give 8 tablets.
    * For junior-strength tablets that say 100 mg tablets on the label, give 4 tablets. 

Try giving your child the medicine with food to avoid stomach upset. If you
are not sure how much to give your child, call your health care provider.

DO NOT give ibuprofen to children under 6 months of age, unless directed by
your provider. You should also check with your provider before giving
ibuprofen to children under age 2 years or less than 12 pounds or 5.5
kilograms.

## Giving Medicine to Children

Make sure you don't give your child more than one medicine with ibuprofen. For
example, ibuprofen can be found in many allergy and cold remedies. Read the
label before giving any medicine to children. You should not give medicine
with more than one active ingredient to children under age 6 years.

There are important child medicine safety tips to follow.

    * Carefully read all of the instructions on the label before giving your child medicine.
    * Make sure you know the strength of the medicine in the bottle you purchased.
    * Use the syringe, dropper, or dosing cup that comes with your child's liquid medicine. You can also get one at your local pharmacy.
    * Make sure you are using the right unit of measurement when filling medicine. You may have the option of milliliters (mL) or teaspoon (tsp) dosing.
    * If you are not sure what medicine to give your child, call your provider. 

Children with certain medical conditions or taking certain medicines should
not take ibuprofen. Check with your provider.

## If Your Child Takes too Much

Be sure to post the number for the poison control center by your home phone.
If you think your child has taken too much medicine, call the poison control
center at 1-800-222-1222. It is open 24 hours a day. Signs of poisoning
include nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and abdominal pain.

Go to the nearest emergency room. Your child may need:

    * Activated charcoal. Charcoal stops the body from absorbing the medicine. It has to be given within an hour. It does not work for every medicine.
    * To be admitted to the hospital to be monitored.
    * Blood tests to see what the medicine is doing.
    * To have his or her heart rate, breathing rate, and blood pressure monitored.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You are not sure what dose of medicine to give your infant or child.
    * You are having trouble getting your child to take medicine.
    * Your child's symptoms do not go away when you would expect.
    * Your child is an infant and has signs of illness, such as fever.

## Alternative Names

Motrin; Advil

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Ibuprofen dosage table for fever and
pain. Healthychildren.org. www.healthychildren.org/English/safety-
prevention/at-home/medication-safety/Pages/Ibuprofen-for-Fever-and-Pain.aspx.
Updated May 23, 2016. Accessed November 15, 2018.

Aronson JK. Ibuprofen. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:5-12.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medicines and Children
    * Pain Relievers

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

