Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002558.htm    
                                Description: Tolmetin is an NSAID (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug). It is used to help relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness due to certain types of arthritis or other conditions that cause inflammation,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tolmetin overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002558.htm

# Tolmetin overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tolmetin is an NSAID (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug). It is used to help
relieve pain, tenderness, swelling, and stiffness due to certain types of
arthritis or other conditions that cause inflammation, such as sprains or
strains.

Tolmetin overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or
recommended amount of this medicine, either by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Tolmetin

## Where Found

Tolmetin sodium is the generic name of this medicine.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of an overdose of tolmetin in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Rapid breathing
    * Slow breathing
    * Wheezing 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Blurred vision
    * Ringing in the ears

KIDNEYS AND BLADDER

    * Kidney failure

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Coma
    * Confusion
    * Convulsions
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness
    * Incoherence (not understandable)
    * Unsteadiness

STOMACH AND INTESTINAL TRACT

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bleeding in the stomach and intestines
    * Diarrhea
    * Heartburn
    * Nausea and vomiting (sometimes bloody)

SKIN

    * Rash

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away and call poison control. Standard procedure is to
make the person throw up, unless the person is unconscious or having
convulsions. Poison control will tell you what to do.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the medicine and the strength of the medicine, if known
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.Â
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen and a tube through the mouth into the lungs
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (through a vein)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms and reverse the effects of the drug
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to empty the stomach (gastric lavage)
    * X-rays 
    * Blood transfusion if stomach bleeding is severe

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery is very likely. However, gastrointestinal bleeding may be severe and
require blood transfusion. Kidney damage may be permanent. Some people may
need endoscopy, placing a tube through the mouth to the stomach, to stop the
bleeding. Some may need to use a kidney machine (dialysis) if their kidney
function does not return to normal.

## Alternative Names

Tolmetin sodium overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Tolmetin. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:42-43.

Hatten BW. Aspirin and nonsteroidal agents. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 144.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

