Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000783.htm    
                                Description: Taking acetaminophen (Tylenol) can help children with colds and fever feel better. As with all drugs, it is important to give children the correct dose. Acetaminophen is safe when taken as directed. But,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acetaminophen dosing for children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000783.htm

# Acetaminophen dosing for children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Taking acetaminophen (Tylenol) can help children with colds and fever feel
better. As with all drugs, it is important to give children the correct dose.
Acetaminophen is safe when taken as directed. But, taking too much of this
medicine can be harmful.

## How Acetaminophen Can Help Your Child

Acetaminophen is used to help:

    * Reduce aches, pain, sore throat, and fever in children with a cold or the flu
    * Relieve pain from a headache or toothache

## Proper Dosing of Liquids and Tablets

Children's acetaminophen can be taken as liquid or chewable tablet.

If your child is under age 2 years, check with your health care provider
before giving your child acetaminophen.

To give the correct dose, you will need to know your child's weight.

You also need to know how much acetaminophen is in a tablet, teaspoon (tsp),
or 5 milliliters (mL) of the product you are using. You can read the label to
find out.

    * For chewable tablets, the label will tell you how many milligrams (mg) are found in each tablet, such as 80 mg per tablet.
    * For liquids, the label will tell you how many mg are found in 1 tsp or in 5 mL, such as 160 mg/1 tsp or 160 mg/5 mL. 

For syrups, you will need some type of dosing syringe. It may come with the
medicine, or you can ask your pharmacist. Make sure to clean it out after each
use.

 **If your child weighs 24 to 35 lbs (10.9 to 15.9 kilograms):**

    * For syrup that says 160 mg/5 mL on the label: Give a dose: 5 mL
    * For syrup that says 160 mg/1 tsp on the label: Give a dose: 1 tsp
    * For chewable tablets that say 80 mg on the label: Give a dose: 2 tablets 

**If your child weighs 36 to 47 lbs (16 to 21 kilograms):**

    * For syrup that says 160 mg/5 mL on the label: Give a dose: 7.5 mL
    * For syrup that says 160 mg/1 tsp on the label: Give a dose: 1 Â½ tsp
    * For chewable tablets that say 80 mg on the label: Give a dose: 3 tablets 

**If your child weighs 48 to 59 lbs (21.5 to 26.5 kilograms):**

    * For syrup that says 160 mg/5 mL on the label: Give a dose: 10 mL
    * For syrup that says 160 mg/1 tsp on the label: Give a dose: 2 tsp
    * For chewable tablets that say 80 mg on the label: Give a dose: 4 tablets 

**If your child weighs 60 to 71 lbs (27 to 32 kilograms):**

    * For syrup that says 160 mg/5 mL on the label: Give a dose: 12.5 mL
    * For syrup that says 160 mg/1 tsp on the label: Give a dose: 2 Â½ tsp
    * For chewable tablets that say 80 mg on the label: Give a dose: 5 tablets
    * For chewable tablets that say 160 mg on the label: Give a dose: 2 Â½ tablets 

**If your child weighs 72 to 95 lbs (32.6 to 43 kilograms):**

    * For syrup that says 160 mg/5 mL on the label: Give a dose: 15 mL
    * For syrup that says 160 mg/1 tsp on the label: Give a dose: 3 tsp
    * For chewable tablets that say 80 mg on the label: Give a dose: 6 tablets
    * For chewable tablets that say 160 mg on the label: Give a dose: 3 tablets 

**If your child weighs 96 lbs (43.5 kilograms) or more:**

    * For syrup that says 160 mg/5 mL on the label: Give a dose: 20 mL
    * For syrup that says 160 mg/1 tsp on the label: Give a dose: 4 tsp
    * For chewable tablets that say 80 mg on the label: Give a dose: 8 tablets
    * For chewable tablets that say 160 mg on the label: Give a dose: 4 tablets 

You may repeat the dose every 4 to 6 hours as needed. DO NOT give your child
more than 5 doses in 24 hours.

If you are not sure how much to give your child, call your provider.

## Proper Dosing of Suppositories

If your child is vomiting or will not take oral medicine, you can use
suppositories. Suppositories are placed in the anus to deliver medicine.

You can use suppositories in children older than 6 months. Always check with
your provider before giving any medicine to children under 2 years old.

This medicine is given every 4 to 6 hours.

 **If your child is 6 to 11 months:**

    * For infant suppositories that read 80 milligrams (mg) on the label: Give a dose: 1 suppository every 6 hours
    * Maximum dose: 4 doses in 24 hours 

**If your child is 12 to 36 months:**

    * For infant suppositories that read 80 mg on the label: Give a dose: 1 suppository every 4 to 6 hours
    * Maximum dose: 5 doses in 24 hours 

**If your child is 3 to 6 years:**

    * For children's suppositories that read 120 mg on the label: Give a dose: 1 suppository every 4 to 6 hours
    * Maximum dose: 5 doses in 24 hours 

**If your child is 6 to 12 years:**

    * For junior-strength suppositories that read 325 mg on the label: Give a dose: 1 suppository every 4 to 6 hours
    * Maximum dose: 5 doses in 24 hours 

**If your child is 12 years and over:**

    * For junior-strength suppositories that read 325 mg on the label: Give a dose: 2 suppositories every 4 to 6 hours
    * Maximum dose: 6 doses in 24 hours 

## Giving Medicine to Children

Make sure you do not give your child more than one medicine that contains
acetaminophen as an ingredient. For example, acetaminophen can be found in
many cold remedies. Read the label before giving any medicine to children. You
should not give medicine with more than one active ingredient to children
under age 6 years.

When giving medicine to children, also be sure to follow important child
medicine safety tips.

## If Your Child Takes Too Much

Be sure to post the number for the poison control center by your phone. If you
think your child has taken too much medicine, call the poison control center
at 1-800-222-1222. It is open 24 hours a day. Signs may include nausea,
vomiting, tiredness, and abdominal pain.

Go to the nearest emergency room. Your child may need:

    * To get activated charcoal. Charcoal stops the body from absorbing the medicine. It has to be given within an hour, and it does not work for every medicine.
    * To be admitted to the hospital so they can be watched closely.
    * Blood tests to see what the medicine is doing.
    * To have their heart rate, breathing rate, and blood pressure monitored.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You are not sure about the dose of medicine to give your infant or child.
    * You are having trouble getting your child to take medicine.
    * Your child's symptoms do not go away when you would expect them to go away.
    * Your child is an infant and has signs of illness, such as fever.

## Alternative Names

Tylenol

## References

Healthychildren.org website. American Academy of Pediatrics. Acetaminophen
dosage table for fever and pain. www.healthychildren.org/English/safety-
prevention/at-home/medication-safety/Pages/Acetaminophen-for-Fever-and-
Pain.aspx. Updated April 20, 2017. Accessed November 15, 2018.

US Food and Drug Administration website. Reducing fever in children: safe use
of acetaminophen. www.fda.gov/forconsumers/consumerupdates/ucm263989.htm#Tips.
Updated January 25, 2018. Accessed November 15, 2018.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medicines and Children
    * Pain Relievers

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

