Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002123.htm    
                                Description: Over-the-counterÂ (OTC) pain relievers can help relieve pain or lower a fever. Over-the-counter means you can buy these medicines without a prescription.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Over-the-counter pain relievers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002123.htm

# Over-the-counter pain relievers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Over-the-counterÂ (OTC) pain relievers can help relieve pain or lower a fever.
Over-the-counter means you can buy these medicines without a prescription.

The most common types of OTC pain medicines are acetaminophen and nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).

## Information

Pain medicines are also called analgesics. Each kind of pain medicine has
benefits and risks. Some types of pain respond better to one kind of medicine
than to another kind. What takes away your pain might not work for someone
else.

Taking pain medicines before exercising is OK. But do not overdo the exercise
just because you have taken the medicine.

Read labels to learn how much medicine you can give your child at one time and
during theÂ whole day. This is known as the dosage. Talk to your pharmacist or
your childâs health care provider if you are not sure about the correct
amount. Do not give children medicine that is meant for adults.

Other tips for taking pain medicines:

    * If you take pain relievers on most days, tell your provider. You may need to be watched for side effects.
    * Do not take more than the amount recommended on theÂ container or more than your provider tells you to take.
    * Read the warnings on the label before taking the medicine.
    * Store medicine safely and securely. Check the dates on medicineÂ containers to see when you should throwÂ them away.

ACETAMINOPHEN

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is known as a non-aspirin pain reliever. It is NOT an
NSAID, which is described below.

    * Acetaminophen relieves fever and headaches, and other common aches and pains. It does not relieve inflammation.
    * This medicine does not cause as many stomach problems as other pain medicines do. It is also safer for children. Acetaminophen is often recommended for arthritis pain because it has fewer side effects than other pain medicines.
    * Examples of OTC brands of acetaminophen are Tylenol, Paracetamol, and Panadol.
    * Acetaminophen prescribed by a doctor is usually a stronger medicine. It is often combined with a narcotic ingredient.

PRECAUTIONS

    * Adults should not take more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) of acetaminophen in a single day. Large amounts can harm your liver. Remember that 3 grams is about the same as 6 extra-strength pills or 9 regular pills.
    * If you are also taking pain medicine prescribed by your provider, talk to your provider or pharmacist before taking any OTC acetaminophen.
    * For children, follow package instructions for the maximum amount your child can have in a single day. Call your child's provider if you are not sure about the instructions.

NSAIDS

    * NSAIDs relieve fever and pain. They also reduce swelling from arthritis or a muscle sprain or strain.
    * When taken for a short time (no longer than 10 days), NSAIDs are safe for most people.
    * Some NSAIDs can be bought over the counter, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
    * Other NSAIDs are prescribed by your provider.

PRECAUTIONS

    *  **DO NOT give aspirin to children**. Reye syndrome can occur when aspirin is used to treat children who have viral infections, such as chickenpox or the flu.

Talk to your provider or pharmacist before using any over-the-counter NSAID if
you:

    * Have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or stomach or digestive tract bleeding.
    * Take other medicines, especially blood thinners such as warfarinÂ (Coumadin),clopidogrel (Plavix), apixiban (Eliquis), dabigatran (Pradaxa), or rivaroxaban (Xarelto).
    * Are taking NSAIDs prescribed by your provider, including celecoxib (Celebrex) or nabumetone (Relafen).

## Alternative Names

Medicines for painÂ non-narcotic; Drugs for pain non-narcotic; Analgesics;
Acetaminophen; NSAID; Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug; Pain medicine -
over-the-counter; Pain medicine - OTC

## Images

    * ![Pain medications](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9715t.jpg)Pain medications

## References

Aronson JK. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). In: Aronson JK,
ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier;
2016:236-272.

Dinakar P. Principles of pain management. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 54.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pain Relievers](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PainRelievers_thumb.jpg)Pain
Relievers _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

