Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002616.htm    
                                Description: Contac is the brand name for a cough, cold, and allergy medicine. It contains several ingredients, including members of the class of drugs known as sympathomimetics, which can have effects similar to adrenaline.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Contac overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002616.htm

# Contac overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Contac is the brand name for a cough, cold, and allergy medicine. It contains
several ingredients, including members of the class of drugs known as
sympathomimetics, which can have effects similar to adrenaline. Contac
overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount
of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

These ingredients in Contac can be harmful in large amounts:

    * Acetaminophen (Tylenol)
    * Chlorpheniramine
    * Phenylpropanolamine
    * Dextromethorphan hydrobromide
    * Diphenhydramine hydrochloride
    * Pseudoephedrine hydrochloride 

**Note:** Not all of these ingredients are found in every form of Contac.

## Where Found

Besides being in Contac, these ingredients are also found in some over-the-
counter herbal products advertised to help with weight loss and athletic
performance.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a Contac overdose include:

    * Agitation
    * Blurred vision
    * Convulsions (seizures)
    * Depression
    * Delirium (acute confusion)
    * Disorientation, nervousness, hallucinations
    * Drowsiness
    * Enlarged (dilated) pupils
    * Fever
    * Inability to urinate or completely empty the bladder
    * Increased blood pressure
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Muscle pain and spasms, tremor, unsteadiness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Yellow eyes due to jaundice

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing) 

Treatment may include:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * Laxative
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth and into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This type of overdose tends to be mild. However, if the person swallowed
enough of the product, serious complications (such as liver damage) can occur.
This is from the acetaminophen in the product. How well aÂ person does depends
on how much was taken and how soon they receive treatment. Serious heart
rhythm disturbances and death can occur.

## References

Aronson JK. Ephedra, ephedrine, and pseudoephedrine. In: Aronson JK, ed.
_Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:65-75.

Hendrickson RG, McKeown NJ. Acetaminophen. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 143.

## Review Date 6/26/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cold and Cough
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColdandCoughMedicine_thumb.jpg)Cold
and Cough Medicines _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

