Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000942.htm    
                                Description: Over-the-counter cold medicines are drugs you can buy without a prescription. OTC cold medicines may help relieve symptoms of a cold.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cold medicines and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000942.htm

# Cold medicines and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Over-the-counter cold medicines are drugs you can buy without a prescription.
OTC cold medicines may help relieve symptoms of a cold.

This article is about OTC cold medicines for children. These cold remedies
should be used with caution. They are not recommended for children younger
than age 4.

## About OTC Cold Medicines

Cold medicines do not cure or shorten a cold. Most colds go away in 1 to 2
weeks. Often, children get better without needing these medicines.

OTC cold medicines can help treat cold symptoms to and make your child feel
better. They may:

    * Shrink the swollen lining of the nose, throat, and sinuses.
    * Relieve sneezing and an itchy, runny nose.
    * Clear mucus from the airways (cough remedies).
    * Suppress coughs.

Most cold medicines also include acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil,
Motrin) to help relieve headaches, fever, and aches and pains.

Younger children are usually given liquid medicines using teaspoons. For
infants, the same medicine may be available in a more concentrated form
(drops).

## Use OTC Cold Medicines With Care

OTC cold medicines may cause serious side-effects, including:

    * Seizures
    * Rapid heart beat
    * Reduced consciousness
    * Reye syndrome (from aspirin)
    * Death 

Certain medicines should not be given to children, or only after a certain
age.

    * DO NOT give cold medicines to children less than 4 years old.
    * ONLY give cold medicines to children ages 4 to 6 years if your doctor recommends it.
    * DO NOT give ibuprofen to children younger than 6 months unless directed by a doctor.
    * DO NOT give aspirin if your child is younger than 12 to 14 years. 

Taking too many different medicines also may cause harm. Most OTC cold
remedies contain more than one active ingredient.

    * Avoid giving more than one OTC cold medicine to your child. It may cause an overdose with severe side effects.
    * Replacing one cold medicine with another may be ineffective or cause an overdose. 

Follow the dosage instructions strictly while giving an OTC medicine to your
child.

When giving OTC cold medicines to your child:

    * Ask yourself if your child really needs it - a cold will go away on its own without treatment.
    * Read the label. Check the active ingredients and strength.
    * Stick to the right dose -- less could be ineffective, more could be unsafe.
    * Follow instructions. Be sure you know how to give the medicine and how often to give it in a day.
    * Use the syringe or measuring cup provided with the liquid medicines. DO NOT use a household spoon.
    * If you have any questions or concerns, talk to your pharmacist or health care provider.
    * Never give OTC medicines to children less than 2 years old. 

You can also try some home care tips to help relieve cold symptoms in infants
and younger children.

Store medicines in a cool, dry area. Keep all medicines out of the reach of
children.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if your child has:

    * Fever
    * Earache
    * Yellow green or gray mucus
    * Pain or swelling in the face
    * Breathing problems or chest pain
    * Symptoms that lasts longer than 10 days or that get worse over time 

Talk to your doctor to learn more about colds and how you can help your child.

## Alternative Names

OTC children; Acetaminophen - children; Cold and cough - children;
Decongestants - children; Expectorants - children; Antitussive - children;
Cough suppressant - children

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics, healthychildren.org website. Coughs and colds:
medicines or home remedies? www.healthychildren.org/English/health-
issues/conditions/chest-lungs/Pages/Coughs-and-Colds-Medicines-or-Home-
Remedies.aspx. Updated June 26, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Miller EK, Williams JV. The common cold. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 379.

US Food and Drug Administration website. Reducing fever in children: safe use
of acetaminophen. www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm263989.htm.
Updated January 26, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cold and Cough Medicines
    * Medicines and Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

