Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002628.htm    
                                Description: Dextromethorphan is a medicine that helps stop coughing. It is an opioid substance. Dextromethorphan overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine. This    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dextromethorphan overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002628.htm

# Dextromethorphan overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dextromethorphan is a medicine that helps stop coughing. It is an opioid
substance. Dextromethorphan overdose occurs when someone takes more than the
normal or recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on
purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.Â

## Poisonous Ingredient

Dextromethorphan can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Dextromethorphan is found in many over-the-counter cough and cold medicines,
including:

    * Robitussin DM
    * Triaminic DM
    * Rondec DM
    * Benylin DM
    * Drixoral
    * St. Joseph Cough Suppressant
    * Coricidin
    * Alka-Seltzer Plus Cold and Cough
    * NyQuil
    * DayQuil
    * TheraFlu
    * Tylenol Cold
    * Dimetapp DM 

The drug is also abused and sold on the streets under the names:

    * Orange crush
    * Triple Cs
    * Red Devils
    * Skittles
    * Dex 

Other products may also contain dextromethorphan.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a dextromethorphan overdose include:

    * Breathing problems,Â including slow and labored breathing, shallow breathing, no breathing
    * Bluish-colored fingernails and lips
    * Blurred vision
    * Coma
    * Constipation
    * Seizures
    * Drowsiness
    * Dizziness
    * Hallucinations
    * High or low blood pressure
    * Muscle twitches
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pounding heartbeat (palpitations), rapid heartbeat
    * Raised body temperature
    * Spasms of the stomach and intestines 

## Home Care

This can be a serious overdose. Get medical help right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container or drug with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to reverse the effect of the narcotic in the drug (changes in mental state and behavior) and treat other symptoms
    * Activated charcoal
    * Laxative
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This medicine is safe if you take it as directed. However, many teenagers take
very high amounts of this medicine to "feel good" and to have hallucinations.
Like other drugs of abuse, this can be dangerous. Over-the-counter cough
medicines that contain dextromethorphan often contain other medicines that can
also be dangerous in an overdose.

Although most people who abuse dextromethorphan will need no treatment, some
people will. Survival is based on how quickly a person receives help at a
hospital.

## Alternative Names

DXM overdose; Robo overdose; Orange crush overdose; Red devils overdose;
Triple C's overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Dextromethorphan. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:899-905.

Iwanicki JL. Hallucinogens. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 150.

## Review Date 9/23/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cold and Cough
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColdandCoughMedicine_thumb.jpg)Cold
and Cough Medicines _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

