Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002601.htm    
                                Description: Brompheniramine is a type of medicine called an antihistamine, which helps relieve allergy symptoms. Brompheniramine overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brompheniramine overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002601.htm

# Brompheniramine overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brompheniramine is a type of medicine called an antihistamine, which helps
relieve allergy symptoms. Brompheniramine overdose occurs when someone takes
more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by
accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Brompheniramine and brompheniramine maleate are the poisonous ingredients in
this medicine.

## Where Found

Brompheniramine may be found in the following brand-name product:

    * Bromfed-DM

Other medicines may also contain brompheniramine.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of a brompheniramine overdose in different parts of the
body.

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Inability to urinate
    * Difficulty urinating 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, MOUTH, AND THROAT

    * Blurred vision
    * Dilated (wide) pupils
    * Dry mouth
    * Ringing in the ears 

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS

    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Increased blood pressure 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Agitation
    * Coma
    * Convulsions (seizures)
    * Delirium (confusion)
    * Disorientation, hallucinations
    * Drowsiness
    * Fever
    * Irregular or rapid heartbeat
    * Nervousness
    * Tremor
    * Unsteadiness, weakness 

SKIN

    * Flushed and dry skin 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Constipation
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the medicine (and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison control. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Intravenous fluids (through a vein)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * Activated charcoal
    * Laxatives
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to empty the stomach (gastric lavage)
    * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a ventilator (breathing machine)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the person survives the first 24 hours, chances of survival are good. Few
people actually die from an antihistamine overdose. With very high doses of
antihistamines, however, serious heart rhythm disturbances may occur, which
can cause death.

Keep all medicines in child-proof bottles and out of the reach of children.

## References

Aronson JK. Anticholinergic drugs. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects
of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:534-539.

Monte AA, Hoppe JA. Anticholinergics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 145.

## Review Date 6/26/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cold and Cough
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColdandCoughMedicine_thumb.jpg)Cold
and Cough Medicines _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

