Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002636.htm    
                                Description: Diphenhydramine is a type of medicine called an antihistamine. It is used in some allergy and sleep medicines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diphenhydramine overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002636.htm

# Diphenhydramine overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diphenhydramine is a type of medicine called an antihistamine. It is used in
some allergy and sleep medicines.

OverdoseÂ occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount
of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Diphenhydramine can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Diphenhydramine may be found in medicines with these brand names:

    * Benadryl
    * Nytol
    * Sominex
    * Tylenol PM 

Other medicines may also contain diphenhydramine.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of a diphenhydramine overdose in different parts of the
body.

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Inability to urinate

EYES, EARS, NOSE, MOUTH, AND THROAT

    * Blurred vision
    * Dry mouth
    * Enlarged pupils
    * Very dry eyes
    * Ringing in the ears 

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS

    * Low blood pressure
    * Rapid heartbeat 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Agitation
    * Confusion
    * Seizures
    * Delirium
    * Depression
    * Drowsiness
    * HallucinationsÂ (seeing or hearing things that aren't there)
    * Increased sleepiness
    * Nervousness
    * Tremor
    * Unsteadiness

SKIN

    * Dry, red skin 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Nausea
    * Vomiting

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake or alert?)
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

Call for help even if you don't have this information.

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.Â

Tests that may done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram or heart tracing)
Treatment may include:

    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms  

    * Activated charcoal  

    * Laxative
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery is likely if the person survives the first 24 hours. Complications
such as pneumonia, muscle damage from lying on a hard surface for a long
period of time, or brain damage from lack of oxygen may result in permanent
disability.

Few people actually die from an antihistamine overdose. However, serious heart
rhythm disturbances may occur, which can cause death.

Keep all medicines in child-proof bottles and out of reach of children.

## Alternative Names

Benadryl overdose; Sominex overdose; Nytol overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Anticholinergic drugs. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects
of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:534-539.

Monte AA, Hoppe JA. Anticholinergics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 145.

## Review Date 10/7/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cold and Cough
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColdandCoughMedicine_thumb.jpg)Cold
and Cough Medicines _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

