Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000530.htm    
                                Description: Some medicines need to be given with an injection. Learn the proper technique to draw your medicine into a syringe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drawing medicine out of a vial

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000530.htm

# Drawing medicine out of a vial

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some medicines need to be given with an injection. Learn the proper technique
to draw your medicine into a syringe.

## Get Ready

To get prepared:

    * Gather your supplies: medicine vial, syringe, alcohol pad, sharps container.
    * Make sure you are working in a clean area.
    * Wash your hands.

## Check Your Medicine

Carefully check your medicine:

    * Check the label. Make sure you have the right medicine.
    * Check the date on the vial. DO NOT use medicine that is out of date.
    * You may have a multi-dose vial. Or you may have a vial with powder that you mix with liquid. Read or ask about instructions if you have to mix your medicine.
    * If you will use the medicine more than once, write the date on the vial so you remember when you opened it.
    * Look at the medicine in the vial. Check for a change in color, small pieces floating in the liquid, cloudiness, or any other changes. 

## Get the Vial Ready

Prepare your medicine vial:

    * If this is your first time using this medicine, take the cap off the vial.
    * Wipe the rubber top clean with an alcohol pad. 

## Filling the Syringe With Medicine

Follow these steps to fill the syringe with medicine:

    * Hold the syringe in your hand like a pencil, with the needle pointed up.
    * With the cap still on, pull back the plunger to the line on your syringe for your dose. This fills the syringe with air.
    * Insert the needle into the rubber top. DO NOT touch or bend the needle.
    * Push the air into the vial. This keeps a vacuum from forming. If you put in too little air, you will find it hard to draw out the medicine. If you put in too much air, the medicine may be forced out of the syringe.
    * Turn the vial upside down and hold it up in the air. Keep the needle tip in the medicine.
    * Pull back the plunger to the line on your syringe for your dose. For example, if you need 1 cc of medicine, pull the plunger to the line marked 1 cc on the syringe. Note that some bottles of medicine may say mL. One cc of medicine is the same amount as one mL of medicine.

To remove air bubbles from the syringe:

    * Keep the syringe tip in the medicine.
    * Tap the syringe with your finger to move air bubbles to the top. Then push gently on the plunger to push the air bubbles back into the vial.
    * If you have a lot of bubbles, push the plunger to push all the medicine back into the vial. Draw medicine out again slowly and tap air bubbles out. Double check that you still have the right amount of medicine drawn up.
    * Remove the syringe from the vial and keep the needle clean.
    * If you plan to put the syringe down, put the cover back on the needle.

## Alternative Names

Administering injections; Giving a needle; Giving insulin

## References

Auerback PS. Procedures. In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Medicine for the Outdoors_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:444-454.

Maxwell S. Therapeutics and good prescribing. In: Walker BR, Colledge NR,
Ralston SH, Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_.
22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap 2.

Perry AG, Potter PA, Ostendorf V. Safe medication preparation. In: Perry AG,
Potter PA, Ostendorf W, eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills & Techniques_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 20.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

