Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000496.htm    
                                Description: You or your child will be going home from the hospital soon. The doctor has prescribed medicines or other treatments that you or your child need to take at home.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

IV treatment at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000496.htm

# IV treatment at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You or your child will be going home from the hospital soon. The doctor has
prescribed medicines or other treatments that you or your child need to take
at home.

## IV Treatment at Home

IV (intravenous) means giving medicines or fluids through a needle or tube
(catheter) that goes into a vein. The tube or catheter may be one of the
following:

    * Central venous catheter
    * Central venous catheter - port 
    * Peripherally inserted central catheter
    * Normal IV (one inserted into a vein just below your skin) 

Home IV treatment is a way for you or your child to receive IV medicine
without being in the hospital or going to a clinic.

## Why You Need IV Medicines at Home?

You may need high doses of antibiotics or antibiotics that you cannot take by
mouth.

    * You may have started IV antibiotics in the hospital that you need to keep getting for a while after you leave the hospital.
    * For example, infections in the lungs, bones, brain, or other parts of the body may be treated this way. 

Other IV treatments you may receive after you leave the hospital include:

    * Treatment for hormone deficiencies
    * Medicines for severe nausea that cancer chemotherapy or pregnancy may cause
    * Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) for pain (this is IV medicine that patients give themselves)
    * Chemotherapy to treat cancer 

You or your child may need total parenteral nutrition (TPN) after a hospital
stay. TPN is a nutrition formula that is given through a vein.

You or your child may also need extra fluids through an IV.

## Receiving Intravenous Treatments at Home

Often, home health care nurses will come to your home to give you the
medicine. Sometimes, a family member, a friend, or you yourself can give the
IV medicine.

The nurse will check to make sure the IV is working well and there are no
signs of infection. Then the nurse will give the medicine or other fluid. It
will be given in one of the following ways:

    * A fast bolus, which means the medicine is given quickly, all at once.
    * A slow infusion, which means the medicine is given slowly over a long period. 

After you receive your medicine, the nurse will wait to see if you have any
bad reactions. If you are fine, the nurse will leave your home.

Used needles need to be disposed of in a needle (sharps) container. Used IV
tubing, bags, gloves, and other disposable supplies can go in a plastic bag
and be put in the trash.

## Problems to Watch For

Watch for these problems:

    * A hole in the skin where the IV is. Medicine or fluid can go into the tissue around the vein. This could harm the skin or tissue.
    * Swelling of the vein. This can lead to a blood clot (called thrombophlebitis). 

These rare problems may cause breathing or heart problems:

    * A bubble of air gets into the vein and travels to the heart or lungs (called an air embolism).
    * An allergic or other serious reaction to the medicine. 

Most times, home health care nurses are available 24 hours a day. If there is
a problem with the IV, you can call your home health care agency for help.

If the IV comes out of the vein:

    * First, put pressure over the opening where the IV was until the bleeding stops.
    * Then call the home health care agency or the doctor right away. 

## When to Call Your Health Care Provider

Call your health care provider if you or your child has any signs of
infection, such as:

    * Redness, swelling, or bruising at the site where the needle enters the vein
    * Pain
    * Bleeding
    * Fever of 100.5Â°F (38Â°C) or higher 

Call your local emergency number, such as 911, right away if you have:

    * Any breathing problems
    * A fast heart rate
    * Dizziness
    * Chest pain 

## Alternative Names

Home intravenous antibiotic therapy; Central venous catheter - home;
Peripheral venous catheter - home; Port - home; PICC line - home; Infusion
therapy - home; Home health care - IV treatment

## References

Chu CS, Rubin SC. Basic principles of chemotherapy. In: DiSaia PJ, Creasman
WT, Mannel RS, McMeekin DS, Mutch DG, eds. _Clinical Gynecologic Oncology_.
9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 17.

Perry AG, Potter PA. Skill 35: Intravenous medications: intermittent infusion
sets and mini-infusion pumps. In: Perry AG, Potter PA, eds. _Mosby's Pocket
Guide to Nursing Skills and Procedures_. 8th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby;
2015:230.

Perry AG, Potter PA. Skill 36: Intravenous medications: intravenous bolus. In:
Perry AG, Potter PA, eds. _Mosby's Pocket Guide to Nursing Skills and
Procedures_. 8th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2015:241.

Pong AL, Bradley JS. Outpatient intravenous antimicrobial therapy for serious
infections. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ,
eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 238.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

