Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000863.htm    
                                Description: Out-of-pocket costs for prescription medicines can really add up. The good news is that there may be ways to save on drug costs. Start by switching to generic options or signing up for a discount program.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to save money on medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000863.htm

# How to save money on medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Out-of-pocket costs for prescription medicines can really add up. The good
news is that there may be ways to save on drug costs. Start by switching to
generic options or signing up for a discount program. Here are some other safe
ways to save on medicines.

## Switch to Generics

Generic drugs are copies of brand name drugs. They have the same exact
medicine as a brand name drug. A generic is approved as safe and effective by
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The brand name drug costs more because
of the research that went into making it. The generic drug is the same drug,
and it costs less money.

You might also be able to buy a "therapeutic equivalent" at a lower cost. This
is a different drug formula, but it treats the same condition. It may work
just as well.

Ask your health care provider if there is a generic option or a similar, less
expensive, medicine for the drug you are taking.

## Splitting Pills

You may be able to order a double dose of your medicine, and split the pills
in half. It depends on the type of medicine and the dose you are taking. In
some cases, it can save you money.

The FDA has a list of drugs that can be split safely. If the pill is approved
for splitting, there will be a note in the "How Supplied" section of the
medicine label. There will also be a line across the pill to show you where to
split it. You should only split 1 pill at a time and use up both halves before
splitting another pill.

DO NOT split pills without talking with your provider first. Some drugs may be
harmful if split before use.

## Mail Order or Online Pharmacies

Try to find a good mail-order pharmacy for your long-term medicines. Your
health plan may offer one to you. You can order a 90-day supply and may have a
lower copay.

Also, you can search online for good mail-order prices. Then check with your
health plan to make sure the medicines you buy from the program will be
covered before you order.

Remember, not everything on the internet is safe. Check with your health plan
or provider before you buy to make sure the program is safe.

## Discount Programs or Supplemental Coverage

You may be eligible for a drug assistance program. It depends on your income
and health needs. Some pharmaceutical companies offer these programs. They are
also called "patient assistance programs." You may get a discount card, free,
or low-cost medicines. You can apply directly to the drug company for the
medicine you are taking.

Websites such as _NeedyMeds_ (www.needymeds.org) and _Partnership for
Prescription Assistance_ (www.pparx.org) can help you find assistance for the
medicines you are taking.

Some states and health insurance plans also offer assistance programs. Check
with your health plan and local government websites.

If you are over 65, look into supplemental drug coverage (Medicare Part D).
This optional insurance coverage can help you pay for your medicines.

## Use Medicines Wisely

Take all of your medicines as directed to avoid problems that can lead to
illness and out-of-pocket expense. Tell your provider if you are taking other
medicines, herbal supplements, or over-the-counter drugs.

Build a good relationship with your pharmacist. Your pharmacist can look out
for you, recommend ways to save money, and make sure all the drugs you take
are safe.

Manage your condition. One of the best ways to save money on health care costs
is to stay healthy.

Check with your provider at each visit to make sure you need to continue
taking medicines. There may be other ways to manage your condition that cost
less.

## Use Caution

Only purchase medicines from a licensed US pharmacy. DO NOT buy medicines from
foreign countries to save money. The quality and safety of these medicines is
not known.

## When to Call the Health Care Provider

Talk with your provider if:

    * You are having trouble paying for your medicines
    * You have questions or concerns about your medicines

## References

US Food & Drug Administration website. Best practices for tablet splitting.
www.fda.gov/Drugs/ResourcesForYou/Consumers/BuyingUsingMedicineSafely/EnsuringSafeUseofMedicine/ucm184666.htm.
Updated August 23, 2013. Accessed August 13, 2018.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Saving money on prescription drugs.
www.fda.gov/drugs/resources-you/saving-money-prescription-drugs. Updated May
4, 2016. Accessed April 30, 2019.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update: 04-30-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

