Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002582.htm    
                                Description: Corticosteroids are medicines that treat inflammation in the body. They are some of the naturally-occurring hormones produced by glands and released into the blood stream. Corticosteroid overdose occurs    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Corticosteroids overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002582.htm

# Corticosteroids overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Corticosteroids are medicines that treat inflammation in the body. They are
some of the naturally-occurring hormones produced by glands and released into
the blood stream. Corticosteroid overdose occurs when someone takes more than
the normal or recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or
on purpose.

Corticosteroids come in many forms, including:

    * Creams and ointments that are applied to the skin
    * Inhaled forms that are breathed into the nose or lungs
    * Pills or liquids that are swallowed
    * Injected forms delivered to the skin, joints, muscles, or veins 

Most corticosteroid overdoses occur with pills and liquids.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Corticosteroid

## Where Found

Corticosteroids are found in these medicines:

    * Alclometasone dipropionate
    * Betamethasone sodium phosphate
    * Clocortolone pivalate
    * Desonide
    * Desoximetasone
    * Dexamethasone
    * Fluocinonide
    * Flunisolide
    * Fluocinolone acetonide
    * Flurandrenolide
    * Fluticasone propionate
    * Hydrocortisone
    * Hydrocortisone valerate
    * Methylprednisolone
    * Methylprednisolone sodium succinate
    * Mometasone furoate
    * Prednisolone sodium phosphate
    * Prednisone
    * Triamcinolone acetonide

Other medicines may also contain corticosteroids.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of corticosteroid overdose can include:

    * Altered mental status with agitation (psychosis)
    * Burning or itching skin
    * Seizures
    * Deafness
    * Depression
    * Dry skin
    * Heart rhythm disturbances (rapid pulse, irregular pulse)
    * High blood pressure
    * Increased appetite
    * Increased infection risk
    * Muscle weakness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Nervousness
    * Sleepiness
    * Stopping of menstrual cycle
    * Swelling in lower legs, ankles, or feet
    * Weak bones (osteoporosis) and bone fractures (seen with long-term use)
    * Weakness
    * Worsening of health conditions such as stomach inflammation, acid reflux, ulcers, and diabetes 

Some of the above symptoms may develop even when corticosteroids are used
correctly, and some are more likely to develop after chronic use or overuse.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake and alert?)
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed

DO NOT delay calling for help if you do not have the aboveÂ information.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison control. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the medicine container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Intravenous fluids (given through a vein)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * Activated charcoal
    * Laxatives
    * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who overdose on corticosteroids have minor changes in their body's
fluids and electrolytes. If they have changes in their heart rhythm, their
outlook may be more serious. Some problemsÂ related toÂ taking corticosteroids
may occur even when they are taken properly. People who have these problems
may need to take both short- and long-term medicines to treat these problems.

## References

Aronson JK. Corticosteroids-glucocorticoids. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's
Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:594-657.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Steroids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnabolicSteroids_thumb.jpg)Steroids
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

