Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007678.htm    
                                Description: A steroid injection is a shot of medicine used to relieve a swollen or inflamed area that is often painful. It can be injected into a joint, tendon, or bursa.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Steroid injections - tendon, bursa, joint

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007678.htm

# Steroid injections - tendon, bursa, joint

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A steroid injection is a shot of medicine used to relieve a swollen or
inflamed area that is often painful. It can be injected into a joint, tendon,
or bursa.

## Description

Your health care provider inserts a small needle and injects medicine into the
painful and inflamed area. Depending on the site, your provider may use an
x-ray or ultrasound to see where to place the needle.

For this procedure:

    * You will lie on a table and the injection area will be cleaned.
    * A numbing medicine may be applied to the injection site.
    * You may be given medicine to help you relax, if needed. 

Steroid injections can be given into a bursa, joint, or tendon.

BURSA

A bursa is a sac filled with fluid that acts as a cushion between tendons,
bones, and joints. Swelling in the bursa is called bursitis. Using a small
needle, your provider will inject a small amount of corticosteroid and a local
anesthetic into the bursa.

JOINT

Any joint problem, such as arthritis, can cause inflammation and pain. Your
provider will place a needle in your joint. Sometimes ultrasound or an x-ray
machine may be used to see where exactly the location is. Your provider may
then remove any excess fluid in the joint using a syringe attached to the
needle. Your provider will then exchange the syringe and a small amount of
corticosteroid and a local anesthetic will be injected into the joint.

TENDON

A tendon is a band of fibers that connects muscle to bone. Soreness in the
tendon causes tendonitis. Your provider will put a needle directly adjacent to
the tendon and inject a small amount of corticosteroid and a local anesthetic.

You will be given a local anesthetic along with the steroid injection to
relieve your pain right away. The steroid will take 5 to 7 days or so to start
working.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedureÂ aims toÂ relieve pain and inflammation in a bursa, joint, or
tendon.

## Risks

Risks of steroid injection may include:

    * Pain and bruising at the site of the injection
    * Swelling
    * Irritation and discoloration of the skin at the injection site
    * Allergic reaction to the medicine
    * Infection
    * Bleeding in the bursa, joint, or tendon
    * Damage to nerves near the joint or soft tissue
    * An increase in your blood glucose level for several days after the injection if you have diabetes 

## Before the Procedure

Your provider will tell you about the advantages and possible risks of the
injection.

Tell your provider about any:

    * Health problems
    * Medicines you take, including over-the-counter medicines, herbs, and supplements
    * Allergies 

Ask your provider if you should have someone to drive you home.

## After the Procedure

The procedure takes little time. You can go home the same day.

    * You might have slight swelling and redness around the injection site.
    * If you have swelling, apply ice over the site for 15 to 20 minutes, 2 to 3 times per day. Use an ice pack wrapped in a cloth. DO NOT apply ice directly to skin.
    * Avoid a lot of activity the day you get the shot.

If you have diabetes, your provider will advise you to check your glucose
level more often for 1 to 5 days. The steroid that was injected can raise your
blood sugar level, most often only by a small amount.

Look for pain, redness, swelling, or fever.Â Contact your provider if these
signs are becoming worse.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You may notice a decrease in your pain for the first few hours after the shot.
This is due to the numbing medicine. However, this effect will wear off.

After the numbing medicine wears off, the same pain you were having before may
return. This may last several days. The effect of the injection will start
usually 5 to 7 days after the injection. This can decrease your symptoms.

At some point, most people feel less or no pain in the tendon, bursa, or joint
after a steroid injection. Depending on the problem, your pain may or may not
return.  

## Alternative Names

Corticosteroid injection; Cortisone injection; Bursitis - steroid; Tendonitis
- steroid

## References

Gupta N. Treatment of bursitis, tendinitis, and trigger points. In: Roberts
JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 52.

Provenzano DA, Chandwani K. Joint injections. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, Wu
CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain._ 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 71.

Schrank KS. Joint disorders. In: Adams JG, ed. _Emergency Medicine._ 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 107.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Joint Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JointDisorder_thumb.jpg)Joint
Disorders _Read more_

![Steroids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnabolicSteroids_thumb.jpg)Steroids
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

