Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003741.htm    
                                Description: Sensitivity analysis determines the effectiveness of antibiotics against microorganisms (germs) such as bacteria that have been isolated from cultures.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sensitivity analysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003741.htm

# Sensitivity analysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sensitivity analysis determines the effectiveness of antibiotics against
microorganisms (germs) such as bacteria that have been isolated from cultures.

Sensitivity analysis may be done along with:

    * Blood culture
    * Clean catch urine culture or catheterized specimen urine culture
    * Sputum culture
    * Culture from endocervix (female genital tract)
    * Throat culture
    * Wound and other cultures 

## How the Test is Performed

After the sample is collected from you, it is sent to a lab. There, the
samples are put in special containers to grow the germs from the collected
samples. Colonies of germs are combined with different antibiotics to see how
well each antibiotic stops each colony from growing. The test determines how
effective each antibiotic is against a given organism.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to prepare for the
method used to obtain the culture.

## How the Test will Feel

The way the test feels depends on the method used to obtain the culture.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test shows which antibiotic drugs should be used to treat an infection.

Many organisms are resistant to certain antibiotics. Sensitivity tests are
important in helping find the right antibiotic for you. Your provider may
start you on one antibiotic, but later change you to another because of the
results of sensitivity analysis.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the organism shows resistance to the antibiotics used in the test, those
antibiotics will not be effective treatment.

## Risks

Risks depend on the method used to obtain the specific culture.

## Alternative Names

Antibiotic sensitivity testing; Antimicrobial susceptibility testing

## References

Charnot-Katsikas A, Beavis KG. In vitro testing of antimicrobial agents. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 59.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Antibiotics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

