Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000259.htm    
                                Description: Pseudomembranous colitis refers to swelling or inflammation of the large intestine (colon) due to an overgrowth of Clostridioides difficile (C difficile) bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pseudomembranous colitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000259.htm

# Pseudomembranous colitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pseudomembranous colitis refers to swelling or inflammation of the large
intestine (colon) due to an overgrowth of _Clostridioides difficile_ ( _C
difficile_ ) bacteria.

This infection is a common cause of diarrhea after antibiotic use.

## Causes

The _C difficile_ bacteria normally lives in the intestine. However, too much
of these bacteria may grow when you take antibiotics. The bacteria give off a
strong toxin that causes inflammation and bleeding in the lining of the colon.

Any antibiotic can cause this condition. The drugs responsible for the problem
most of the time are ampicillin, clindamycin, fluoroquinolones, and
cephalosporins.

Health care providers in the hospital may pass this bacteria from one person
to another.

Pseudomembranous colitis is uncommon in children, and rare in infants. It is
most often seen in people who are in the hospital. However, it is becoming
more common in people who take antibiotics and are not in a hospital.

Risk factors include:

    * Older age
    * Antibiotic use
    * Use of medicines that weaken the immune system (such as chemotherapy medicines)
    * Recent surgery
    * History of pseudomembranous colitis
    * History of ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal cramps (mild to severe)
    * Bloody stools
    * Fever
    * Urge to have a bowel movement
    * Watery diarrhea (often 5 to 10 times per day) 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be done:

    * Colonoscopy or flexible sigmoidoscopy
    * Immunoassay for C difficile toxin in the stool
    * Newer stool tests such as PCR

## Treatment

The antibiotic or other medicine causing the condition should be stopped.
Metronidazole, ancomycin, or fidaxomicin are most often used to treat the
problem, but other medicines may also be used.

Electrolyte solutions or fluids given through a vein may be needed to treat
dehydration due to diarrhea. In rare cases, surgery is needed to treat
infections that get worse or do not respond to antibiotics.

Long term antibiotics may be needed if the _C difficile_ infection returns. A
new treatment called fecal microbiota transplant ("stool transplant") has also
been effective for infections that come back.

Your provider may also suggest that you take probiotics if the infection
returns.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is good in most cases, if there are no complications. However, up
to 1 in 5 infections may return and need more treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Dehydration with electrolyte imbalance
    * Perforation of (hole through) the colon
    * Toxic megacolon
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have the following symptoms:

    * Any bloody stools (especially after taking antibiotics)
    * Five or more episodes of diarrhea per day for more than 1 to 2 days
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Signs of dehydration 

## Prevention

People who have had pseudomembranous colitis should tell their providers
before taking antibiotics again. It is also very important to wash hands well
to prevent passing the germ to other people. Alcohol sanitizers do not always
work on _C difficile_.

## Alternative Names

Antibiotic-associated colitis; Colitis - pseudomembranous; Necrotizing
colitis; C difficile - pseudomembranous

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Gerding DN, Johnson S. Clostridial infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 296.

Gerding DN, Young VB. Clostridium difficle infection. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 245.

Kelly CP, Lamont JT. Antibiotic-associated diarrhea and clostridium difficile
infection. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 112.

McDonald LC, Gerding DN, Johnson S, Bakken JS, et al. Clinical practice
guidelines for Clostridium difficile Infection in adults and children: 2017
update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and Society for
Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA). _Clin Infect Dis_.
2018;66(7):987-994. PMID: 29562266 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29562266.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 12/17/2019.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Antibiotics
_Read more_

![Clostridium Difficile
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ClostridiumDifficileInfections_thumb.jpg)Clostridium
Difficile Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

