Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002563.htm    
                                Description: Bacitracin is an antibiotic medicine. It is used to kill germs that cause infections. Small amounts of bacitracin are dissolved in petroleum jelly to create antibiotic ointments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bacitracin overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002563.htm

# Bacitracin overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bacitracin is an antibiotic medicine. It is used to kill germs that cause
infections. Small amounts of bacitracin are dissolved in petroleum jelly to
create antibiotic ointments.

Bacitracin overdose occurs when someone swallows a product containing this
ingredient or uses more than the normal or recommended amount of the product.
This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Bacitracin can be poisonous in large amounts.

## Where Found

Bacitracin is found in certain over-the-counter antibiotic ointments such as
Neosporin. It may also be found in some prescription eye ointments.

The medicine also comes in a form that can be given as a shot into a muscle or
through a vein. Using it this way is the most common way for an overdose to
occur.

## Symptoms

Bacitracin is very safe. However, getting it in the eyes may cause redness and
some pain and itching.

Eating bacitracin in large amounts may cause stomach pain and vomiting.

In rare cases, bacitracin can cause an allergic reaction, often redness and
itching of the skin. If the reaction is severe, there may be difficulty
swallowing or breathing.

Bacitracin is still used as a body-wide (systemic) antibiotic in parts of the
world. If it is given by injection, it may cause pain in the area of the shot
or a skin rash. It can also cause nausea, vomiting, and bone marrow and kidney
failure.

People who are sensitive to neomycin, another antibiotic that is used on the
skin, may also be sensitive to bacitracin.

## Home Care

If you have a reaction to bacitracin, stop using it. For serious reactions,
seek emergency medical care right away.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at
least 15 minutes.

If the chemical was swallowed, give the person water or milk right away. Do
NOT give water or milk if the person is vomiting or has a decreased level of
alertness.

Call the poison control center or your local emergency number (such as 911)
for assistance.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:  

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of product (as well as the ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing) 

Treatment may include:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Breathing support
    * Intravenous fluids (given through a vein)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Skin and eye washing (irrigation) if the product touched these tissues and they are irritated or swollen 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If an allergic reaction develops and is controlled, recovery is very likely.
Survival beyond 24 hours usually is a sign that recovery is likely.

## Alternative Names

Polysporin ointment overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Bacitracin. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:807-808.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Antibiotics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

