

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut
Butter, 2008-2009 (FINAL UPDATE)

Minus

Related Pages

NOTICE: This outbreak is over. The information on this page has been archived
for historical purposes only and will not be updated.

NOTICE: This outbreak is over. The information on this page has been archived
for historical purposes only and will not be updated.

Posted May 11, 2009

### Outbreak Summary

CDC is collaborating with public health officials in many states and the
United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate
outbreak of human infections due to _Salmonella_ serotype Typhimurium.

As of 9 PM EDT, Monday, April 20, 2009, 714 persons infected with the outbreak
strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium have been reported from 46 states. The
number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (2),
Arizona (14), Arkansas (6), California (81), Colorado (18), Connecticut (11),
Florida (1), Georgia (6), Hawaii (6), Idaho (17), Illinois (12), Indiana (11),
Iowa (3), Kansas (2), Kentucky (3), Louisiana (1), Maine (5), Maryland (11),
Massachusetts (49), Michigan (38), Minnesota (44), Missouri (15), Mississippi
(7), Montana (2), Nebraska (1), New Hampshire (14), New Jersey (24), New York
(34), Nevada (7), North Carolina (6), North Dakota (17), Ohio (102), Oklahoma
(4), Oregon (15), Pennsylvania (19), Rhode Island (5), South Dakota (4),
Tennessee (14), Texas (10), Utah (8), Vermont (4), Virginia (24), Washington
(25), West Virginia (2), Wisconsin (5), and Wyoming (2). Additionally, one ill
person was reported from Canada.

Among the persons with confirmed, reported dates available, illnesses began
between September 1, 2008 and March 31, 2009. Patients range in age from < 1
to 98 years. The median age of patients is 16 years which means that half of
ill persons are younger than 16 years. 21% are age < 5 years, 17% are > 59
years. 48% of patients are female. Among persons with available information,
24% reported being hospitalized. Infection may have contributed to nine
deaths: Idaho (1), Minnesota (3), North Carolina (1), Ohio (2), and Virginia
(2).

On November 10, 2008, CDC's PulseNet staff noted a small and highly dispersed
multistate cluster of 13 _Salmonella_ Typhimurium isolates with an unusual DNA
fingerprint or pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) pattern reported from
12 states. On November 25, CDC's OutbreakNet team, working with state and
local partners, began an epidemiologic assessment of that cluster, which had
increased to 35 isolates. On December 2, CDC and state and local partners
began an assessment of a second cluster of 41 _Salmonella_ Typhimurium
isolates. The PFGE patterns of the second cluster were very similar to the
patterns in the first cluster and were first noted by PulseNet on November 24,
as a cluster of 27 isolates that had subsequently increased to 41 isolates.
Neither of these patterns were seen previously in the PulseNet _Salmonella_
Typhimurium database. The clusters also appeared similar epidemiologically, so
the two patterns were grouped together as a single outbreak strain, and the
investigations were merged.

The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of
persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi
curve. It shows that most illnesses began after October 1, 2008. Illnesses
that occurred after March 16, 2009 may not yet be reported due to the time it
takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This
takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases
of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak in
December, but illnesses are still being reported among people who ate the
recalled brands of peanut butter crackers after the recall. The outbreak is
expected to continue at a low level for the next several months since
consumers unaware that they have recalled products in their home continue to
consume these products, many of which have a long shelf-life.

Consumers should check at home for recalled peanut butter containing products
and discard them.

### Outbreak Investigation

**Peanut Butter**

Preliminary analysis of the first national case-control study conducted by CDC
and public health officials in multiple states on January 3 and 4, 2009,
comparing foods eaten by ill and well persons indicates that peanut butter is
a likely source of the bacteria causing the infections.

An investigation by the Minnesota Department of Health suggested King Nut
brand creamy peanut butter as a likely source of _Salmonella_ infections among
many ill persons in Minnesota. The Minnesota Department of Agriculture
Laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium from an
open 5-pound container of King Nut brand creamy peanut butter. King Nut creamy
peanut butter is distributed in many states to establishments such as long-
term care facilities, hospitals, schools, universities, restaurants, delis,
cafeterias, and bakeries. It is not sold directly to consumers and is not
known to be distributed for retail sale in grocery stores.

The Connecticut Department of Public Health Laboratory and the Georgia
Department of Agriculture independently isolated _Salmonella_ from unopened
5-pound containers of King Nut brand peanut butter. Officials in Connecticut
have identified the _Salmonella_ found in their container as the outbreak
strain. Further tests are pending in Georgia to determine if the Salmonella in
their container is also the outbreak strain.

The Michigan Department of Community Health isolated _Salmonella_ from an
unopened 5-pound container of King Nut brand peanut butter. They have
identified the _Salmonella_ found in their container as the outbreak strain.

To date, 19 clusters of infections in five states have been reported in
schools and other institutions, such as long-term care facilities and
hospitals. King Nut brand peanut butter was present in all facilities.

Seven people from Colorado became ill in December and January and reported
eating fresh, in store ground peanut butter purchased from one health food
store chain. Preliminary information suggests that the peanuts came from the
Peanut Corporation of America facility in Texas. However, the ultimate source
of peanuts remains under investigation.

King Nut is produced by Peanut Corporation of America (PCA) in Blakely,
Georgia. King Nut peanut butter was not sold directly to consumers but was
distributed to institutions, food service providers, food manufacturers and
distributors in many states and countries. Peanut butter and peanut paste is
commonly used as an ingredient in many products, including cookies, crackers,
cereal, candy, ice cream, pet treats, and other foods.

**Other Peanut-Containing Products**

To clarify whether other peanut-containing foods are associated with the
outbreak, CDC along with state partners conducted a second national case-
control study. Between January 17 and 19, 2009, telephone interviews were
conducted with 95 persons who became ill with the outbreak strain and 405 well
persons. Preliminary analysis of data received as of 9PM, Sunday, January 28,
reveals an association between illness and consumption of pre-packaged peanut
butter crackers, specifically with Austin and Keebler brands.

Austin and Keebler brand peanut butter crackers are produced by the Kellogg
Company in North Carolina, using peanut paste from the Peanut Corporation of
America. On January 14, 2009, the Kellogg Company put a precautionary hold on
these peanut butter crackers, and on January 16 recalled these products. Other
peanut containing products produced by a variety of companies may have been
made with the ingredients recalled by PCA. CDC and state health departments
continue to investigate the association of other brands and foods that contain
peanut butter with illness.

_Salmonella_ Typhimurium was isolated in Canada from Austin brand peanut
butter crackers purchased in the United States. Officials in Canada have
identified the _Salmonella_ found in these peanut butter crackers as the
outbreak strain. _Salmonella_ resembling the outbreak strain was isolated by a
private laboratory from three intact packages of Austin brand Toasty peanut
butter crackers obtained from a patient's home in Oregon.

On February 6, Oregon public health officials confirmed that this _Salmonella_
outbreak can also affect pets. One laboratory-confirmed case of _Salmonella_
in a dog from an Oregon household was reported, and further characterization
of this _Salmonella_ isolate is pending. _Salmonella_ resembling the outbreak
strain was isolated by a private laboratory from recalled dog biscuits from
this dog's household.

On January 28, 2009, PCA announced a voluntary recall of all peanuts and
peanut products processed in its Blakely, Georgia facility since January 1,
2007. In addition to peanut butter and peanut paste, the expanded recall
includes roasted peanuts and other peanut products and was based in part on
laboratory testing information from the company. On January 28, 2009, the
facility reported that production of all peanut products had stopped. More
than 2833 peanut-containing products produced by a variety of companies may
have been made with the ingredients recalled by PCA. FDA and the product
manufacturers are working to determine the list of affected products, which
may be extensive. Many companies have already announced whether their products
include ingredients being recalled by Peanut Corporation of America, Georgia,
and more companies are expected to make similar announcements.

### Final Case Count Map

#### Persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium, by
state of residence, as of April 20, 2009 (n=714)



![Final Case Count Map: Persons infected with the outbreak strain of
Salmonella Typhimurium, by state of residence, as of April 20, 2009
\(n=714\)](/salmonella/2009/images/typhimurium-map-042909.jpg)

As of 9PM EDT, Monday, April 20, 2009, 714 persons infected with the outbreak
strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium have been reported from 46 states. The
number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (2),
Arizona (14), Arkansas (6), California (81), Colorado (18), Connecticut (11),
Florida (1), Georgia (6), Hawaii (6), Idaho (17), Illinois (12), Indiana (11),
Iowa (3), Kansas (2), Kentucky (3), Louisiana (1), Maine (5), Maryland (11),
Massachusetts (49), Michigan (38), Minnesota (44), Missouri (15), Mississippi
(7), Montana (2), Nebraska (1), New Hampshire (14), New Jersey (24), New York
(34), Nevada (7), North Carolina (6), North Dakota (17), Ohio (102), Oklahoma
(4), Oregon (15), Pennsylvania (19), Rhode Island (5), South Dakota (4),
Tennessee (14), Texas (10), Utah (8), Vermont (4), Virginia (24), Washington
(25), West Virginia (2), Wisconsin (5), and Wyoming (2). Additionally, one ill
person was reported from Canada.

### Final Epi Curve

#### Persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium, by
date of illness onset*



![Final Epi Curve: Persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella
Typhimurium, by date of illness onset*](/salmonella/2009/images/typhimurium-
epi-042909.jpg)

*n=696 for whom information was reported as of April 20, 2009, 9pm EDT. Some illness onset dates have been estimated from other reported information.

**Interpretation of Epidemic Curves during an Active Outbreak**

The epidemic curve (epi curve) shows progression of an outbreak over time. The
horizontal axis represents the date when a person became ill, also called the
date of onset. The vertical axis is the number of persons who became ill on
each date. These are updated as new data come in, and thus are subject to
change. The epi curve is complex and incomplete. Several issues are important
in understanding it.

                    * **There is an inherent delay between the date that an illness starts, and the date that the case is reported to public health authorities. It typically takes 2-3 weeks for _Salmonella_ infections.** That means that someone who got sick last week is very unlikely to have been reported yet, and someone who got sick three weeks ago may just be reported now. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection.
                    * **Some background cases of illness are likely to occur that would have occurred even without an outbreak. This makes it difficult to say exactly which case is the first in an outbreak.** Epidemiologists typically focus on the first recognized cluster or group of cases rather than the very first case. Due to the inherent reporting delay, the cluster is sometimes not detected until several weeks after the persons became ill.
                    * **For some cases, the date when they became ill is not known** because it takes time before someone from the health department can do an interview to ask for this information. Sometimes the interview never occurs. If the date that the person brought the specimen to be tested to the laboratory is known, we may estimate the date of illness onset as three days before that.
                    * **It can be difficult to determine when cases start to decline** because of the reporting delay. This can become clearer as time passes.
                    * **It can be difficult to say when the outbreak is over, because of the reporting delay.** The delay means that the curve for the most recent three weeks always looks like the outbreak could be ending even during an active outbreak. The full shape of the curve is only clear after the outbreak is over.

### Recommendations

Based on available information, CDC and FDA recommendations include:

**For Consumers**

                    * Consumers should avoid eating recalled products that contain peanut butter, including Austin and Keebler brand peanut butter crackers.
                    * Major national brands of jarred peanut butter found in grocery stores are NOT on the Peanut Corporation of America (PCA) recall list.
                    * Any product that is on the recall list should be disposed of in a safe manner. Any recalled product should be thrown away to prevent _Salmonella_ infections in humans, pets, or other animals. This product should be disposed of in a closed plastic bag and placed in a sealed trash can to prevent people or animals, including wild animals, from eating it.
                    * Consumers also should avoid eating products made with peanut butter, peanut paste, or other peanut-containing products if they are unsure whether these products have been recalled.
                    * Consumers with pets should know that some pet foods and pet treats may contain peanut butter, including dog biscuits and bird food. If you have a recalled pet product in your household, do not feed it to your pet or other animals. Consumers also should avoid feeding products made with peanut butter, peanut paste, or other peanut-containing products to their pets if they are unsure whether these products have been recalled.
                    * To determine whether a product has been recalled, consumers can search the list of recalled products or telephone the company that distributed the product at the phone number on the package.
                    * Consumers without internet access can telephone 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636), 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for product recall information from the FDA website and for other information on salmonellosis.
                    * Persons who think they might have become ill from eating peanut butter or peanut-containing products should consult their health-care providers.
                    * Infants, elderly persons, and persons with impaired immune systems are more likely than others to develop severe illness.

**For Retailers**

                    * Stop selling recalled products.

**For Directors of Institutions and Food Service Establishments**

                    * Ensure that they are not serving recalled products.

**For Manufacturers**

                    * Inform consumers about whether their products could contain peanut butter or other peanut-containing products from Peanut Corporation of America. If a manufacturer knows their products do not contain peanut-containing products from PCA, they should inform consumers of that.

To date, no association has been found with major national brand name jars of
peanut butter sold in grocery stores. Public health officials will advise the
public if more products are identified as being associated with the outbreak.

### Clinical Features/Signs & Symptoms

Most persons infected with _Salmonella_ develop diarrhea, fever, and abdominal
cramps 12-72 hours after infection. Infection is usually diagnosed by culture
of a stool sample. The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days. Although most people
recover without treatment, severe infections may occur. Infants, elderly
persons, and those with impaired immune systems are more likely than others to
develop severe illness. When severe infection occurs, _Salmonella_ may spread
from the intestines to the bloodstream and then to other body sites and can
cause death unless the person is treated promptly with antibiotics.

### CDC's Role in Food Safety

As an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
CDC leads federal efforts to gather data on foodborne illnesses, investigate
foodborne illnesses and outbreaks, and monitor the effectiveness of prevention
and control efforts. CDC is not a food safety regulatory agency but works
closely with the food safety regulatory agencies, in particular with HHS's
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Food Safety and Inspection
Service within the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). CDC also
plays a key role in building state and local health department epidemiology,
laboratory, and environmental health capacity to support foodborne disease
surveillance and outbreak response. Notably, CDC data can be used to help
document the effectiveness of regulatory interventions.

### For More Information

                    * Timeline of Infections: Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Associated with Peanut Butter and Peanut Butter-Containing Products - United States, 2008-2009 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 1.38MB]
                    * 2008-2009 _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Outbreak Response After Action Report Cdc-pdf[PDF - 645K]
                    * Multistate Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Infections Associated with Peanut Butter and Peanut Butter--Containing Products-- United States, 2008-2009
                    * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Associated with Peanut ProductsExternal

Page last reviewed: May 11, 2009

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

