Link: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/antibiotics-vs-bacteria-fighting-the-resistance/    
                                Description: How do we stay safe from the growing epidemic of antibiotic resistant bacteria? NIAID is researching ways to keep us safe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Videos ->

Antibiotics vs. Bacteria: Fighting the Resistance

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/antibiotics-vs-
bacteria-fighting-the-resistance/

# Antibiotics vs. Bacteria: Fighting the Resistance

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play Video

For closed captioning, click the CC button on the lower right-hand corner of
the player.

Video player keyboard shortcuts

## Video Outline

0:38 Antimicrobial resistance epidemiology

1:02 Examples of resistant bacteria

1:11 Tuberculosis

1:31 Gonorrhea

1:46 MRSA

2:13 How does antimicrobial resistance occur?

3:25 What can you do to fight antimicrobial resistance?

4:32 Research at NIAID

## Transcript

MedlinePlus presents: Antibiotics vs. Bacteria: Fighting the Resistance.

What if we couldnât fight back?

Tuberculosis. Gonorrhea. MRSA.

These bad bugs are considered by the National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, or NIAID, to be some of the most threatening organisms on
the planet today.

They have all joined the RESISTANCE.

Thatâs antimicrobial resistance, to be clear. Bacteria like these are
quickly gaining the ability to thwart our antibiotics, leaving infections much
more difficult to treat. And thatâs a big problem.

The CDC estimates that every year, more than two million people in the US get
sick from antimicrobial resistant infections, resulting in at least 23,000
deaths. The worry is that other bacteria could join this resistance faster
than we can develop solutions, or that bacteria become impervious to even more
antibiotics, leading to essentially untreatable diseases.

 **Who are these bacteria?Â**

Many different varieties of bacteria have developed antimicrobial resistance,
but some are more worrying than others.

Tuberculosis, or TB, is the number one infectious disease killer in the world,
taking over one and a half million lives every year. TB is difficult to treat,
and some resistant strains need years of daily treatment with multiple drugs,
including months of painful injections and serious side effects that can leave
patients deaf. Â

Gonorrhea is worrisome because strains have become resistant to all but a few
antibiotics. This sexually transmitted disease can share its resistance genes
between bacteria, increasing the speed of resistance.

Staphylococcus aureus, or Staph, is everywhere: on our personal items, our
skin, in our noses. Staph is usually not harmful. But when it is, it can be
difficult to treat especially in cases of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus, or MRSA, which is now carried by 2% of Americans.Â

These are just some of the leading bacteria in the resistance. There are
others, and more are coming.

 **How does resistance occur?**

Resistance is happening quickly because of overuse and misuse of antibiotics
over a long period of time, such as not completing antibiotic courses as
prescribed, and using antibiotics in agriculture to promote growth in animals.
Bacteria multiply so fast, that even if we had the perfect antibiotic,
resistance would still occur. Â

And every time we use antibiotics, there is a chance that some bacteria
survive due to changes in their DNA. The DNA can code for survival advantages
such as:Â

Changing the bacterial cell surface, preventing antibiotics from attaching or
getting in.

Making pumps that spit the antibiotics out before they have a chance to work.

Or creating enzymes that âneutralizeâ the antibiotics.

Antibiotics will kill most bacteria, including the helpful bacteria in our
body.

But the bacteria with the advantages can survive and reproduce.

The resistant bacteria can pass the DNA changes on to their offspring, or
sometimes even to each other, to generate new strains of antibiotic resistant
bacteria.Â

**What can you do to fight the resistance?**

Using fewer antibiotics as a society can help prevent resistance, saving
antibiotics for when they are most appropriate.

The first step is preventing the need for antibiotics by avoiding infections,
for example through hand-washing, immunizations, and safe food preparation.

Using antibiotics the right way also helps, such as taking prescribed courses
of antibiotics as directed to avoid leaving bacteria behind and giving them a
chance to become resistant. Missed doses of antibiotics may allow a better
environment for resistant bacteria to multiply and cause a resistant
infection.Â

By matching specific antibiotics to the bacteria that cause the infections,
healthcare providers can fight antimicrobial resistance by reducing the number
and strength of antibiotics patients take. Care should be taken that the
infections are not already resistant to the antibiotics! Also, antibiotics
should not be given for viral infections like colds or the flu, because
viruses are not affected by antibiotics.Â

**Research at NIAID**

NIAID is researching ways to fight the antimicrobial resistance problem. Many
avenues are being examined, including finding new antibiotics that expose
weaknesses in the bacterial life cycle, looking at ways to boost the immune
system to fight bacterial infections, creating bacterial communities that
drown out the effects of the infectious bacteria, using special viruses that
target and kill infectious bacteria, and improving diagnostic tests to better
target bacteria with the most appropriate antibiotics.

With good public health practices and cutting-edge research, we may be able to
keep up with the resistance, and infectious diseases in general, but we all
need to work together to stay one step ahead.Â

Find out specific up-to-date research and stories from medlineplus.gov and NIH
MedlinePlus the magazine, medlineplus.gov/magazine, and learn more about NIAID
research at niaid.nih.gov.

## Video Information

 **Published March 14, 2018**

View this video on the MedlinePlus playlist at the U.S. National Library of
Medicine YouTube channel at: https://youtu.be/oLPAodRN1b0

 **ANIMATION:** Jeff DayÂ

**INTERN:** Priscilla SeahÂ

**NARRATION:** Jennifer Sun BellÂ

**MUSIC:** Da Bakkwo Instrumental, by Jin Yeop Cho, Marc Ferrari, and Matt
Hirt via Killer Tracks

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotic Resistance
    * Antibiotics

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 April 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

