Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002569.htm    
                                Description: Bacitracin zinc is a medicine that is used on cuts and other skin wounds to help prevent infection. Bacitracin is an antibiotic, a medicine that kills germs. Small amounts of bacitracin zinc are dissolved    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bacitracin zinc overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002569.htm

# Bacitracin zinc overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bacitracin zinc is a medicine that is used on cuts and other skin wounds to
help prevent infection. Bacitracin is an antibiotic, a medicine that kills
germs. Small amounts of bacitracin zinc are dissolved in petroleum jelly to
create antibiotic ointments.

Bacitracin zinc overdose occurs when someone swallows products containing this
ingredient or uses more than the normal or recommended amount of the product.
This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an exposure reaction or
swallows it, call your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local
poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison
Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Bacitracin and zinc can be poisonous if they are swallowed or get in the eyes.

## Where Found

These ingredients are found in many different products, including certain:

    * Over-the-counter antibiotic ointments
    * Prescription antibiotic eye drops and ointments

Bacitracin zinc may also be added to animal food.

Other products may also contain bacitracin zinc.

## Symptoms

Bacitracin zinc is very safe. However, getting bacitracin zinc ointment in the
eyes may cause redness, pain, and itching.

Eating bacitracin in large amounts may cause pain in your stomach, and you
might throw up.

In rare cases, bacitracin zinc causes an allergic reaction, usually redness
and itching of the skin. If the reaction is severe, there may be difficulty
swallowing or breathing.

## Home Care

If you have a reaction to bacitracin zinc, stop using the product. For serious
reactions, seek emergency medical care right away.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at
least 15 minutes.

If the chemical was swallowed, immediately give the person water or milk right
away. Do NOT give water or milk if the person is vomiting or has a decreased
level of alertness.

Call poison control or your local emergency number (such as 911) for
assistance.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:  

    * The person's age, weight, and condition 
    * The name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known) 
    * The time it was swallowed 
    * The amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated as appropriate.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Breathing support
    * Intravenous fluids (given through a vein)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Skin and eye washing (irrigation) if the product touched these tissues and they have become irritated or swollen

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If an allergic reaction is controlled, recovery is very likely. Survival
beyond 24 hours usually is a sign that recovery is likely.Â

## Alternative Names

Cortisporin ointment overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Bacitracin. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:807-808.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Antibiotics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

