Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000570.htm    
                                Description: Antidepressants are prescription medicines you may take to help with depression, anxiety, or pain. Like any medicine, there are reasons you may take antidepressants for a while and then consider no longer    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Depression - stopping your medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000570.htm

# Depression - stopping your medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Antidepressants are prescription medicines you may take to help with
depression, anxiety, or pain. Like any medicine, there are reasons you may
take antidepressants for a while and then consider no longer taking them.

## Before You Stop Your Medicine

Stopping your medicine may be the right choice for you. But first, you should
talk with your health care provider. The safe way to stop taking this medicine
is to lower the dose over time. If you stop taking the medicine suddenly, you
are at risk for:

    * Returning symptoms, such as severe depression
    * Increased risk of suicide (for some people)
    * Withdrawal symptoms, which could feel like the flu or produce sleep problems, dizziness, headache, anxiety, or irritability 

## Why Do You Want to Stop Taking This Medicine?

Write down all of the reasons you want to stop taking the medicine.

Do you still feel depressed? Is the medicine not working? If so, think about:

    * What did you expect would change with this medicine?
    * Have you been taking this medicine long enough for it to work? 

If you have side effects, write down what they are and when they happen. Your
provider may be able to adjust your medicine to improve these problems.

Do you have other concerns about taking this medicine?

    * Are you having trouble paying for it?
    * Does it bother you to have to take it every day?
    * Does it bother you to think you have depression and need to take medicine for it?
    * Do you think you should be able to deal with your feelings without medicine?
    * Are others saying you do not need medicine or should not take it? 

Do you think the problem may be gone, and you wonder if you could stop the
medicine now?

## Making the Decision

Take your list of reasons to stop taking the medicine to the provider who
prescribed it. Talk about each point.

Then, ask your provider:

    * Do we agree on our treatment goals?
    * What are the benefits of staying on this medicine now?
    * What are the risks of stopping this medicine now? 

Find out whether there are other things you can do to address your reasons for
stopping the medicine, such as:

    * Changing the dose of the medicine
    * Changing the time of day you take the medicine
    * Changing how you take the medicine in relation to food
    * Taking a different medicine instead
    * Treating any side effects
    * Adding another treatment, such as talk therapy 

Get the information you need to make a good decision. Think about your health
and what is important to you. This conversation with your provider will help
you decide whether to:

    * Keep taking the medicine
    * Try changing something or adding something
    * Stop taking the medicine now 

## If You Decide to Stop the Medicine

Make sure you understand what you need to do to stop the medicine safely. Ask
your provider how to lower the dose of this medicine over time. DO NOT stop
taking this medicine suddenly.

As you reduce the amount of medicine you take, write down any symptoms you
feel and when you feel them. Then discuss these with your provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Depression or anxiety might not come back right away when you stop taking the
medicine, but it may come back in the future. If you start to feel depressed
or anxious again, call your provider. You should also call your provider if
you have the withdrawal symptoms listed above. It is very important to get
help if you have any thoughts of harming yourself or others.

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Major depressive disorder. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA:
American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:160-168.

Fava M, Ãstergaard SD, Cassano P. Mood disorders: depressive disorders (major
depressive disorder). In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Antidepressants
    * Depression

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

