Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002631.htm    
                                Description: Amitriptyline hydrochloride is a type of prescription medicine called a tricyclic antidepressant. It is used to treat depression. Amitriptyline hydrochloride overdose occurs when someone takes more than    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amitriptyline hydrochloride overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002631.htm

# Amitriptyline hydrochloride overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amitriptyline hydrochloride is a type of prescription medicine called a
tricyclic antidepressant. It is used to treat depression. Amitriptyline
hydrochloride overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or
recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.Â

## Poisonous Ingredient

Amitriptyline can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Amitriptyline hydrochloride is a prescription medicine. It is sold under these
brand names:

    * Adepril
    * Emitrip
    * Enovil
    * Trepiline
    * Tryptanol
    * Vanatrip

Other medicines may also contain amitriptyline hydrochloride.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of an amitriptyline hydrochloride overdose in different
parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Slowed, labored breathing

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Cannot urinate
    * Urine does not flow easily

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Blurred vision
    * Dilated (wide) pupils
    * Dry mouth

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Irregular heart rate
    * Low blood pressure
    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Shock

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Agitation
    * Coma
    * Seizures
    * Drowsiness 
    * Hallucinations
    * Headache
    * Inability to concentrate
    * Lack of alertness (stupor)
    * Muscle rigidity
    * Restlessness
    * Uncoordinated movement

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Constipation
    * Increased appetite
    * Weight gain
    * Vomiting

## Home Care

This can be a very serious overdose. Seek medical help right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine called an antidote to reverse the effects of the poison and treat symptoms
    * Activated charcoal
    * Laxative
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An amitriptyline hydrochloride overdose can be very serious.

People who swallow too much of this drug are almost always admitted to the
hospital.

How well someone does depends on how much of the drug was swallowed and how
quickly treatment is given. The faster a person gets medical help, the better
the chance of recovery. Complications such as pneumonia, muscle damage from
lying on a hard surface for a long period of time, or brain damage from lack
of oxygen may result in permanent disability. Death can occur.

## Alternative Names

Elavil overdose; Adepril overdose; Endep overdose; Enovil overdose; Trepiline
overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Tricyclic antidepressants. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:146-169.

Levine MD, Ruha AM. Antidepressants. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 146.

## Review Date 9/23/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Antidepressants](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Antidepressants_thumb.jpg)Antidepressants
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

