Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007272.htm    
                                Description: Serotonin syndrome (SS) is a potentially life-threatening drug reaction. It causes the body to have too much serotonin, a chemical produced by nerve cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Serotonin syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007272.htm

# Serotonin syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Serotonin syndrome (SS) is a potentially life-threatening drug reaction. It
causes the body to have too much serotonin, a chemical produced by nerve
cells.

## Causes

SS most often occurs when two medicines that affect the body's level of
serotonin are taken together at the same time. The medicines cause too much
serotonin to be released or to remain in the brain area.

For example, you can develop this syndrome if you take migraine medicines
called triptans together with antidepressants called selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and selective serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake
inhibitors (SSNRIs).

Common SSRIs include citalopram (Celexa), sertraline (Zoloft), fluoxetine
(Prozac), paroxetine (Paxil), and escitalopram (Lexapro). SSNRIs include
duloxetine (Cymbalta) and venlafaxine (Effexor). Common triptans include
sumatriptan (Imitrex), zolmitriptan (Zomig), frovatriptan (Frova), rizatriptan
(Maxalt), almotriptan (Axert), naratriptan (Amerge), and eletriptan (Relpax).

If you take these medicines, be sure to read the warning on the packaging. It
tells you about the potential risk of serotonin syndrome. However, do not stop
taking your medicine. Talk to your doctor about your concerns first.

SS is more likely to occur on starting or increasing the medicine.

Older antidepressants called monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) can also
cause SS with the medicines described above, as well as meperidine (Demerol, a
painkiller) or dextromethorphan (cough medicine).

Drugs of abuse, such as ecstasy, LSD, cocaine, and amphetamines have also been
associated with SS.

## Symptoms

Symptoms occur within minutes to hours, and may include:

    * Agitation or restlessness
    * Abnormal eye movements
    * Diarrhea
    * Fast heartbeat and high blood pressure
    * Hallucinations
    * Increased body temperature
    * Loss of coordination
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Overactive reflexes
    * Rapid changes in blood pressure

## Exams and Tests

The diagnosis is usually made by asking the person questions about medical
history, including the types of drugs.

To be diagnosed with SS, the person must have been taking a drug that changes
the body's serotonin level (serotonergic drug) and have at least three of the
following signs or symptoms:

    * Agitation
    * Abnormal eye movements (ocular clonus, this is a key finding in establishing a diagnosis of SS)  

    * Diarrhea
    * Heavy sweating not due to activity
    * Fever
    * Mental status changes, such as confusion or hypomania
    * Muscle spasms (myoclonus)
    * Overactive reflexes (hyperreflexia)
    * Shivering
    * Tremor
    * Uncoordinated movements (ataxia) 

SS is not diagnosed until all other possible causes have been ruled out. This
may include infections, intoxication, metabolic and hormone problems, and drug
or alcohol withdrawal. Some symptoms of SS can mimic those due to an overdose
of cocaine, lithium, or an MAOI.

If a person has just started taking or increased the dosage of a tranquilizer
(neuroleptic drug), other conditions such as neuroleptic malignant syndrome
(NMS) will be considered.

Tests may include:

    * Blood cultures (to check for infection)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the brain
    * Drug (toxicology) and alcohol screen
    * Electrolyte levels
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Kidney and liver function tests
    * Thyroid function tests

## Treatment

People with SS will likely stay in the hospital for at least 24 hours for
close observation.

Treatment may include:

    * Benzodiazepine medicines, such as diazepam (Valium) or lorazepam (Ativan) to decrease agitation, seizure-like movements, and muscle stiffness
    * Cyproheptadine (Periactin), a drug that blocks serotonin production
    * Intravenous (through the vein) fluids
    * Withdrawal of medicines that caused the syndrome 

In life-threatening cases, medicines that keep the muscles still (paralyze
them), and a temporary breathing tube and breathing machine will be needed to
prevent further muscle damage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People may get slowly worse and can become severely ill if not quickly
treated. Untreated, SS can be deadly. With treatment, symptoms usually go away
in less than 24 hours.

## Possible Complications

Uncontrolled muscle spasms can cause severe muscle breakdown. The products
produced when the muscles break down are released into the blood and
eventually go through the kidneys. This can cause severe kidney damage if SS
isn't recognized and treated properly.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider right away if you have symptoms of serotonin
syndrome.

## Prevention

Always tell your providers which medicines you take. People who take triptans
with SSRIs or SSNRIs should be closely followed, especially right after
starting a medicine or increasing its dosage.

## Alternative Names

Hyperserotonemia; Serotonergic syndrome; Serotonin toxicity; SSRI - serotonin
syndrome; MAO - serotonin syndrome

## References

Fricchione GL, Beach SR, Huffman JC, Bush G, Stern TA. Life-threatening
conditions in psychiatry: catatonia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and
serotonin syndrome. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

Levine MD, Ruha AM. Antidepressants. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 146.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 4/5/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Antidepressants](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Antidepressants_thumb.jpg)Antidepressants
_Read more_

![Migraine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Migraine_thumb.jpg)Migraine _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

