Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002559.htm    
                                Description: Trazodone is an antidepressant medicine. Sometimes, it is used as a sleep aid and to treat agitation in people with dementia. Trazodone overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trazodone overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002559.htm

# Trazodone overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trazodone is an antidepressant medicine. Sometimes, it is used as a sleep aid
and to treat agitation in people with dementia. Trazodone overdose occurs when
someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine,
either by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Trazodone

## Where Found

Trazadone hydrochloride is the generic name of this drug.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of an overdose of trazodone in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Stopped breathing

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS

    * Chest pain
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Low blood pressure, sometimes leading to fainting
    * Slow heart rate

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Coma (lack of responsiveness)
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness
    * Headache
    * Insomnia
    * Seizures
    * Lack of coordination
    * Tremor

OTHER

    * Abnormal erection that lasts for more than 4 hoursÂ and can cause permanent damage to the penis.

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Call poison control. Do NOT make the person
throw up unless poison control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the medicine and the strength of the medicine (if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison centerÂ can be reached directly by calling the national
toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United
States.Â This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen and a tube through the mouth into the lungs
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan (advanced imaging) of the brain
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (through a vein)
    * A laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to empty the stomach (gastric lavage)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Death can result from an overdose, but this is rare. Long-term heart and
breathing problems are also rare.

If breathing has been depressed for a long period before treatment, brain
injury may occur.

## Alternative Names

Trazadone hydrochloride

## References

Aronson JK. Trazodone. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:120-123.

Levine M, Ruha A-M. Antidepressants. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 146.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antidepressants](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Antidepressants_thumb.jpg)Antidepressants
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

