Link: https://medlineplus.gov/foodborneillness.html    
                                Description: Many pathogens and bacteria can contaminate what we eat and cause food poisoning. Find out the food and germs most associated with foodborne illness.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Foodborne Illness

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/foodborneillness.html

#  Foodborne Illness

Also called: Food Poisoning

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Each year, around 48 million people in the United States get sick from
contaminated food. Common causes include bacteria and viruses. Less often, the
cause may be a parasite or a harmful chemical, such as a high amount of
pesticides. Symptoms of foodborne illness depend on the cause. They can be
mild or serious. They usually include

    * Upset stomach
    * Abdominal cramps
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Diarrhea
    * Fever
    * Dehydration

Most foodborne illnesses are acute. This means that they happen suddenly and
last a short time.

It takes several steps to get food from the farm or fishery to your dining
table. Contamination can happen during any of these steps. For example, it can
happen to

    * Raw meat during slaughter
    * Fruits and vegetables when they are growing or when they are processed
    * Refrigerated foods when they are left on a loading dock in warm weather

But it can also happen in your kitchen if you leave food out for more than 2
hours at room temperature. Handling food safely can help prevent foodborne
illnesses.

Most people with foodborne illness get better on their own. It is important to
replace lost fluids and electrolytes to prevent dehydration. If your health
care provider can diagnose the specific cause, you may get medicines such as
antibiotics to treat it. For more serious illness, you may need treatment at a
hospital.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Be Food Safe: Protect Yourself from Food Poisoning (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Food Poisoning (Department of Health and Human Services)
    * Food Poisoning (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Food Poisoning ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Foodborne Germs and Illnesses (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Foodborne Illness-Causing Organisms in the U.S.: What You Need to Know (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Ova and Parasite Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Stool Tests (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * CDC Vital Signs: Preventing Norovirus Outbreaks (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * CDC Vital Signs: Safer Food Saves Lives (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Food Safety: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * People at Risk: Those with Weakened Immune Systems (Department of Health and Human Services)

## Related Issues

    * How to Report a Foodborne Illness (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Amnesic Shellfish Poisoning (National Office for Marine Biotoxins and Harmful Algal Blooms)
    * CDC Vital Signs: Recipe for Food Safety (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Chicken and Food Poisoning (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Ciguatera Fish Poisoning (National Office for Marine Biotoxins and Harmful Algal Blooms)
    * Norovirus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Oysters and Vibriosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Parasites and Foodborne Illness (Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service) Also in Spanish
    * Shigellosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * Trichinellosis (also known as Trichinosis) FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Vibrio parahaemolyticus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Vibrio vulnificus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Least Wanted Foodborne Pathogens (Partnership for Food Safety Education) \- PDF

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Enviromysteries: Inside Stories: Frankie's Story ![Interactive Tutorial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/tutorial1.gif) (Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Maryland Public Television)

## Statistics and Research

    * CDC Vital Signs: Making Food Safer to Eat (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness in the United States -- Burden of Foodborne Illness: Findings (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Campylobacter Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Foodborne Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Outbreak of Listeriosis in South Africa Associated with Processed Meat.
    * Article: Organoarsenicals in Seafood: Occurrence, Dietary Exposure, Toxicity, and Risk Assessment Considerations...
    * Article: Extra-intestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli - threat connected with food-borne infections.
    * Foodborne Illness -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Food and Drug Administration
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Amebiasis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Food Poisoning (Nemours Foundation)
    * Learn About Cronobacter Infection (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Shigella Infections (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Yersiniosis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Gastrointestinal Infections and Diarrhea (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

    * Foods to Avoid or Limit during Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Food poisoning (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Foodborne Illness-Causing Organisms in the U.S.: What You Need to Know (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF
    * Gastritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Poisoning - fish and shellfish (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Shigellosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Footborne Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Amebiasis
    * Fecal culture
    * Food poisoning
    * Food poisoning prevention
    * Gastritis
    * Poisoning - fish and shellfish
    * Shigellosis
    * Stool Gram stain

## Related Health Topics

    * Botulism
    * Campylobacter Infections
    * Drinking Water
    * E. Coli Infections
    * Food Safety
    * Hepatitis A
    * Listeria Infections
    * Salmonella Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Foodborne Illness is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Foodborne Illness_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

