Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002547.htm    
                                Description: Doxepin is a type of medicine called a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). It is prescribed to treat depression and anxiety. Doxepin overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Doxepin overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002547.htm

# Doxepin overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Doxepin is a type of medicine called a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). It is
prescribed to treat depression and anxiety. Doxepin overdose occurs when
someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine,
either by accident or on purpose. Toxic level of a TCA can build up in the
body if the TCA and other medicines interact. This interaction can affect how
well the body can break down the TCA.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Doxepin

## Where Found

These medicines contain doxepin:

    * Silenor
    * Zonalon

Other medicines may also contain doxepin.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of an overdose of doxepin in different parts of the body:

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Slow breathing
    * Difficulty breathing 

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Hard to start urinating
    * Hard to empty bladder 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Blurred vision
    * Ringing in the ears 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Irregular heartbeat (may be fatal)
    * Low blood pressure
    * Shock

MOUTH, STOMACH, AND INTESTINAL TRACT

    * Constipation
    * Dry mouth
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Unpleasant taste in mouth 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Agitation, confusion
    * Drowsiness, decreased alertness, coma
    * Headache
    * Muscle rigidity, lack of coordination
    * Restlessness
    * Seizures 

SKIN

    * Very sensitive to sunlight 

## Home Care

Get medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the medicine and the strength of the medicine, if known
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen and a tube through the mouth into the lungs
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan (advanced imaging) of the brain
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (given through a vein)
    * Laxative
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * Sodium bicarbonate, to counteract the effects of TCA overdose
    * Catheter (thin, flexible tube) into the bladder if the person cannot urinate on their own

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of medicine they swallowed and
how quickly the treatment is received. The faster a person gets medical help,
the better the chance for recovery.

Tricyclic depressant overdoses are very toxic and difficult to treat. Many
people have died from TCA overdose, even with aggressive medical treatment.

## Alternative Names

Doxepin hydrochloride overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Doxepin. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:1084.

Levine MD, Ruha AM. Antidepressants. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 146.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services / Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antidepressants](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Antidepressants_thumb.jpg)Antidepressants
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

