Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000965.htm    
                                Description: Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas to help the body use and store glucose. Glucose is a source of fuel for the body.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes - insulin therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000965.htm

# Diabetes - insulin therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas to help the body use and store
glucose. Glucose is a source of fuel for the body.

With diabetes, the body cannot regulate the amount of glucose in the blood
(called glycemia or blood sugar). Insulin therapy can help some people with
diabetes maintain their blood sugar levels.

## Information

Carbohydrates from food are broken down into glucose and other sugars. Glucose
is absorbed from the digestive tract into the bloodstream. Insulin lowers
blood sugar by allowing it to move from the bloodstream into muscle, fat, and
other cells, where it can be stored or used as fuel. Insulin also tells the
liver how much glucose to produce when you are fasting (have not had a recent
meal).

People with diabetes have high blood sugar because their body does not make
enough insulin or because their body does not respond to insulin properly.

    * With type 1 diabetes the pancreas produces little to no insulin.
    * With type 2 diabetes the fat, liver, and muscle cells do not respond correctly to insulin. This is called insulin resistance. Over time, the pancreas stops making as much insulin. 

## Insulin Doses and Types

Insulin therapy replaces the insulin the body would normally make. People with
type 1 diabetes must take insulin every day.

People with type 2 diabetes need to take insulin when other treatments and
medicines fail to control blood sugar levels.

Insulin doses are given in two main ways:

    *  **Basal dose** \- provides a steady amount of insulin delivered all day and night. This helps maintain blood glucose levels by controlling how much glucose the liver releases.
    *  **Bolus dose** \- provides a dose of insulin at meals to help move absorbed sugar from the blood into muscle and fat. Bolus doses can also help correct blood sugar when it gets too high. Bolus doses are also called nutritional or meal-time doses. 

There are several types of insulin available. Insulin types are based on the
following factors:

    * OnsetÂ - how quickly it starts working after injection
    * Peak - time when the dose is the strongest and most effective
    * Duration - total time the insulin dose stays in the bloodstream and lowers blood sugar 

Below are the different types of insulin:

    *  **Rapid-acting or fast-acting insulin** starts working within 15 minutes, peaks in 1 hour, and lasts for 4 hours. It is taken right before or just after meals and snacks. It is often used with longer-acting insulin.
    *  **Regular or short-acting insulin** reaches the bloodstream 30 minutes after use, peaks within 2 to 3 hours, and lasts 3 to 6 hours. This is taken a half-hour before meals and snacks. It is often used with longer-acting insulin.
    *  **Intermediate-acting or basal insulin** starts working within 2 to 4 hours, peaks in 4 to 12 hours, and lasts 12 to 18 hours. This is taken mostly either twice a day or at bedtime.
    *  **Long-acting insulin** starts to work a few hours after injection and works for about 24 hours, sometimes longer. It helps control glucose throughout the day. It is often combined with rapid- or short-acting insulin as needed.
    *  **Premixed or mixed insulin** is a combination of 2 different types of insulin. It has both a basal and bolus dose to control glucose after meals and throughout the day.
    *  **Inhaled insulin** is a rapid-acting breathable insulin powder which starts working within 15 minutes of use. It is used just before meals. 

One or more types of insulin may be used together to help control your blood
sugar. You also may use insulin along with other diabetes medicines. Your
health care provider will work with you to find the right combination of
medications for you.

Your provider will tell when and how often you need to take insulin. Your
dosing schedule may depend on:

    * Your weight
    * Type of insulin you take
    * How much and what you eat
    * Level of physical activity
    * Your blood sugar level
    * Other health conditions 

Your provider can calculate the insulin dose for you. Your provider will also
tell you how and when to check your blood sugar and time your doses during the
day and night.

## Ways to Take Insulin

Insulin cannot be taken by mouth because stomach acid destroys insulin. It is
most often injected under the skin into fatty tissue. There are different
insulin delivery methods available:

    *  **Insulin syringe** \- insulin is drawn from a vial into a syringe. Using the needle, you inject the insulin under the skin.
    *  **Insulin pump** \- a small machine worn on the body pumps insulin under the skin throughout the day. A small tube connects the pump to a small needle inserted into the skin.
    *  **Insulin pen** \- disposable insulin pens have prefilled insulin delivered under the skin using a replaceable needle.
    *  **Inhaler** \- a small device you use to inhale insulin powder through your mouth. It is used at the start of meals.
    *  **Injection port** \- a short tube is inserted into the tissue under the skin. The port containing tube is adhered to skin using adhesive tape. Fast-acting insulin is injected into the tube using a syringe or pen. This allows you to use the same injection site for 3 days before rotating to a new site. 

You can talk with your health care provider about your preferences when
deciding on an insulin delivery method.

Insulin is injected into these sites on the body:

    * Abdomen
    * Upper arm
    * Thighs
    * Hips 

Your provider will teach you how to give an insulin injection or use an
insulin pump or other device.

## Points to Remember

You need to know how to adjust the amount of insulin you are taking:

    * When you exercise
    * When you are sick
    * When you will be eating more or less food 
    * When you are traveling
    * Before and after surgery

## When to Call the Doctor

If you are taking insulin, contact your provider if:

    * You think you may need to change your insulin routine
    * You have any problems taking insulin
    * Your blood sugar is too high or too low and you don't understand why 

## Alternative Names

Diabetes - insulin

## Images

    * ![Insulin pump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18028t.jpg)Insulin pump
    * ![Insulin production and diabetes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8888t.jpg)Insulin production and diabetes

## References

American Diabetes Association website. Insulin basics.
www.diabetes.org/living-with-diabetes/treatment-and-
care/medication/insulin/insulin-basics.html. Updated July 16, 2015. Accessed
September 14, 2018.

American Diabetes Association. 8. Pharmacologic approaches to glycemic
treatment: _Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2018_. _Diabetes Care_.
2018;41(Suppl 1):S73-S85. PMID: 29222379 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222379.

The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Insulin, medicines, & other diabetes treatments. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-
information/diabetes/overview/insulin-medicines-treatments. Updated November
2016. Accessed September 14, 2018.

U.S. Food and Drug Administration website. Insulin.
www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ByAudience/ForWomen/WomensHealthTopics/ucm216233.htm.
Updated February 16, 2018. Accessed September 14, 2018.

## Review Date 1/24/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

