Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000963.htm    
                                Description: An insulin pump is a small device that delivers insulin through a small plastic tube (catheter). The device pumps insulin continuously day and night. It can also deliver insulin more rapidly (bolus) before    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Insulin pumps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000963.htm

# Insulin pumps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An insulin pump is a small device that delivers insulin through a small
plastic tube (catheter). The device pumps insulin continuously day and night.
It can also deliver insulin more rapidly (bolus) before meals. Insulin pumps
can help some people with diabetes have more control in managing blood
glucose.

## Information

Most insulin pumps are about the size of a small mobile phone, but models keep
getting smaller. They are mostly worn on the body using a band, belt, pouch,
or clip. Some models now are wireless.

**Traditional pumps** include an insulin reservoir (cartridge) and a catheter.
The catheter is inserted with a plastic needle just under the skin into fatty
tissue. This is held in place with a sticky bandage. Tubing connects the
catheter to a pump that has a digital display. This allows the user to program
the device to deliver insulin as needed.

**Patch pumps** are worn directly on the body with the reservoir and tubes
inside a small case. A separate wireless device programs insulin delivery from
the pump.

Pumps come with features such as waterproofing, touchscreen, and alerts for
dosage time and insulin reservoir capacity. Some pumps come with a sensor to
monitor blood glucose levels. This allows you to stop insulin delivery if
blood glucose is already low. Talk to your provider about which pump is right
for you.

 **HOW INSULIN PUMPS WORK**

An insulin pump delivers insulin continuously to the body. The device only
uses rapid-acting insulin. It can be programmed to release different doses of
insulin based on your blood glucose levels. Insulin doses are of three types:

    * Basal dose: A small amount of insulin delivered all day and night. With pumps you can change the amount of basal insulin being delivered at different times of day.
    * Bolus dose: A higher dose of insulin at meals when blood sugar levels rise due to carbohydrates in food. You can program the pump to deliver the bolus doses in different patterns. Most pumps have a 'bolus wizard' to help calculate the bolus dose based on your blood glucose level and the meal you are eating.
    * A correction or a supplemental dose as needed. 

You can program the amount of a dose according to your blood sugar levels at
different of times of the day.

The benefits of using an insulin pump include:

    * Not having to inject insulin
    * More discrete than injecting insulin with a syringe
    * More accurate insulin delivery (can deliver fractions of units)
    * May help with tighter blood glucose control
    * Fewer big swings in blood glucose levels
    * May result in improved A1C
    * Fewer episodes of hypoglycemia
    * More flexibility with your diet and exercise
    * Helps manage 'dawn phenomenon' (early a.m. rise in blood glucose levels) 

Disadvantages of using insulin pumps are:

    * Increased risk of weight gain
    * Increased risk of diabetic ketoacidosis if pump does not work correctly
    * Risk of skin infection or irritation at the application site
    * Have to be attached to the pump most of the time
    * Need to operate pump, replace batteries, set doses, and so on
    * Wearing the pump makes it obvious to others that you have diabetes
    * It can take a while to get the hang of using the pump and keeping it working properly
    * Have to check your blood sugar levels several times a day and count carbohydrates
    * Expensive 

**HOW TO USE THE PUMP**

Your diabetes team (and the pump manufacturer) will help you learn everything
you need to know to use the pump successfully. You will need to know how to:

    * Keep track of your blood sugar levels
    * Count carbohydrates
    * Set basal and bolus doses and program the pump
    * Know what doses to program each day based on the amount and type of food eaten and physical activities performed
    * Know how to account for sick days when programming the device
    * Connect, disconnect, and reconnect the device, such as during showers or vigorous activity
    * Manage high blood glucose levels
    * Know how to watch for and avoid diabetic ketoacidosis
    * Know how to deal with pump problems and spot common errors 

Your health care team will train you to check your blood sugar levels to
adjust the doses.

Insulin pumps continue to be improved and have changed a lot since they were
first introduced.

    * Many pumps now communicate with continuous glucose monitors (CGMs).
    * Some feature an 'auto' mode that changes the basal dose based on whether your blood sugar is increasing or decreasing. (This is sometimes referred to as a 'closed loop' system). 

**TIPS FOR USE**

Over time, you will become more comfortable using the insulin pump. These tips
may help:

    * Take your insulin at set times so you don't forget doses.
    * Be sure to track and record your blood sugar checks, exercise, carbohydrate amounts, carbohydrate doses, and correction doses and review them daily or weekly. Doing so will help you improve blood glucose control.
    * Talk with your provider about ways to avoid gaining weight when you start using the pump.
    * If you're traveling, be sure to pack extra supplies. 

## When to Call Your Health Care Provider

You should call your health care provider if:

    * You have frequent low or high blood glucose levels
    * You have a fever, nausea, or vomiting
    * An injury
    * You need to have surgery
    * You have unexplained weight gain
    * You are planning to have a baby or become pregnant
    * You start treatments or medicines for other problems
    * You stop using your pump for an extended time 

## Alternative Names

Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion; CSII; Diabetes - insulin pumps

## Images

    * ![Insulin pump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18035t.jpg)Insulin pump
    * ![Insulin pump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18028t.jpg)Insulin pump

## References

Aronson JK. Insulin. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:111-144.

Atkinson MA. Type 1 diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Insulin, medicines, & other diabetes treatments. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-
information/diabetes/overview/insulin-medicines-treatments. Updated November
2016. Accessed July 2, 2018.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes Medicines

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

