

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Measures to Identify and Track Racial Disparities in Childhood Asthma

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Management

Minus

Related Pages

**On This Page**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma action plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to recognize early symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to use inhaler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to respond to episodes of asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Advised to change home/school/work environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about symptom frequency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about relief inhaler frequency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about activity limitation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Flu vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine asthma visits in past year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Any preventive medication use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Regular use of preventive medication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Short acting beta agonist overuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Action taken to address environmental risks

### **Asthma action plan**

asthma action plan Data Standard | Asthma action plan  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0- 17 years with current asthma who have received an asthma action plan from a health professional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received an asthma action plan from a health professional among all children with current asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma who have ever received an asthma action plan from a health
professional _Survey question (Source: NHIS)_ :  
YES response to:  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" An asthma action plan is a printed form with specific instructions based on [child's name]'s asthma that tells when to change the amount or type of medicine, when to call the doctor for advice, and when to go to the emergency room. Has a doctor or other health professional EVER given [child's name] an asthma action plan?"_

Note: In the NHIS, this question is only asked of those who were ever
diagnosed by a health professional, and who still had asthma at the time of
the survey, and/or those who had at least one asthma attack in the past 12
months, i.e., those with current asthma or with recent asthma symptoms.

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey, 2013 supplement, sample child file (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: BRFSS Asthma Call-back Survey (ACBS) can be used to obtain average annual estimates for survey years starting in 2006 for participating states. Aggregation of at least 2 survey years is recommended to obtain reliable estimates by State. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm)

Note: the question wording for ACBS is slightly different than NHIS. The ACBS
wording is _ "An asthma action plan, or asthma management plan, is a form with
instructions about when to change the amount or type of medicine, when to call
the doctor for advice, and when to go the emergency room. Has a doctor or
other health professional EVER given you or [child's name] an asthma action
plan?"_Denominator definition ** _Denominator for at-risk rate_ :**  
Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma (in the demographic
group of interest)Survey questions used to determine current asthma
prevalence:  
YES response to both questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that [child's name] had asthma?"_  
AND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does [child's name] still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)

Background

In 2008, 44% of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma had ever received
an asthma action plan. (1) Providing all patients with asthma with a written
asthma action plans was included as one of six priority actions in the
National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) Asthma Guidelines
identified by the Guideline Implementation Panel (GIP), given evidence that
education about recognition and appropriate treatment of asthma symptoms
reduces risk and impairment(2). The six priority messages were chosen to help
address disparities in asthma outcomes. Key components of an asthma action
plan are instructions for: 1) daily medication and environmental control and,
2) how to recognize and address worsening asthma. Action plans are an
important way to communicate management plans to schools and enhance
coordination of care across multiple caregivers and sites.

Healthy People https://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-
objectives/topic/respiratory-diseases/objectivesExternal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Respiratory Disease Objective RD-7.2: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma with prescribed inhalers who receive instruction on their use according to NAEPP guidelines.

Significance to disparitiesAnalysis of the 2006-2007 Child Asthma Call-back
Survey showed that there were no racial/ethnic disparities for asthma action
plan receipt: non-Hispanic black, Hispanic, and other race children were no
more or less likely to receive an asthma action plan from a health
professional than non-Hispanic white children(3). However, this same study
also found that having a routine care visit and an ED visit were positively
associated with receiving an asthma action plan. Receiving an action plan may
be a marker for more severe asthma. Given that minority children are at higher
risk of adverse outcomes (4), it could be expected that a higher percentage
would be identified as at risk for poor outcomes and thus more likely to
receive asthma action plans.Data considerations

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Does not measure the percentage with a current or up-to-date plan, only those who have ever received a plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Relies on recall and self (or proxy) report of receiving an asthma action plan (as opposed to documentation in medical records).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Measures the number/percentage of children for whom a caregiver recalls receiving an asthma action plan, and thus have had the opportunity to be educated by a provider about the components of a plan.

Data resourcesBRFSS Asthma Call-back Survey (ACBS): Child prevalence tables
2006-2010: https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/acbs/acbstables.htm (see Table 6:
Estimated percent receiving an asthma management plan among children with
current or active asthma)Related data standards

Because children with severe asthma may be more likely to seek routine and
urgent care and use preventive medication, receiving an asthma action plan may
also be a similar marker for disease severity. Additional indicators of
increased asthma healthcare use and severity include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma attack prevalence (crude measure of asthma control)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma emergency department visits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma hospitalizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventive medication/ICS use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine asthma visit in past year

References(1) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and
self-management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552
(https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6017a4.htm?s_cid=mm6017a4_w)  
(2) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
(3) Zahran HS, Person CJ, Bailey C, Moorman JE. Predictors of asthma self-
management education among children and adults-2006-2007 Behavioral Risk
Factor Surveillance System Asthma Call Back Survey. J Asthma 2012; 49:98-106.  
(4) Akinbami LJ, Moorman JE, Simon AE, Schoendorf KC. Trends in racial
disparities for asthma outcomes among children 0 to 17 years, 2001-2010. J
Allergy Clin Immunol 2014, 134(3):547-553.

 Top of Page

### Taught how to recognize early symptoms

Taught how to recognize early symptoms Data Standard | Taught How to Recognize
Early Symptoms  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received (or their parents/guardians have received) education on how to recognize early signs or symptoms of an asthma episode.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At rate risk: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received (or their parents/guardians have received) education on how to recognize early signs or symptoms of an asthma episode among all children with current asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A.

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma who have received (or their parents/guardians have received)
education on how to recognize early signs or symptoms of an asthma episode
_Survey Question (Source: NHIS)_ :  
_" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER taught [child's name] or
[his/her] parent or guardian how to recognize early signs or symptoms of an
asthma episode?"_ _Benchmark data sources_ :  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2003, 2008, 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: BRFSS Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), average annual estimates for survey years starting in 2006 for participating states. Aggregation of at least 2 survey years is recommended to obtain reliable estimates by state. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm). _Note: although the ACBS question wording ( "Has a doctor or other health professional ever taught you or [child's name] how to recognize early signs or symptoms of an asthma episode?") differs slightly from the NHIS question, the questions are similar enough to yield comparable estimates._

Denominator definition _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children aged
0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions_ : used to determine current
asthma prevalence:  
YES response to both of two survey questions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)

Background

Results from the 2008 NHIS indicate that 72.1% of children with current asthma
had ever been taught to recognize early signs or symptoms of an asthma
episode(1). The EPR-3 recommends that every patient who has asthma be taught
to recognize symptom patterns that indicate inadequate asthma control. There
is evidence that asthma education about recognition of asthma symptoms reduces
risk and impairment (2).

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.3: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma who receive
education about appropriate response to an asthma episode, including
recognizing early signs and symptoms or monitoring peak flow results,
according to National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP)
guidelines, http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-
objectives/topic/respiratory-diseases/objectivesExternal.

Significance to disparitiesAdults with less than a high school education were
less likely to report that they had been taught to recognize signs of an
asthma episode (3). Access to medical care for asthma and the quality of care
provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically disadvantaged
populations (2).Data considerationsThis item is a measurement of the
respondent's recall of receiving education, and thus may be an indicator of
effective communication of education to patients and caretakers.Data
resourcesBehavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS): Asthma Call-Back
Survey (ACBS), starting 2006.
(https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/2006/pdf/acbs_2006_child_codebook.pdfCdc-
pdf)Related data standards

Because being taught how to recognize early symptoms may be done at the same
time as other asthma education in a health care encounter, similar measures
include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to use an inhaler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to respond to episodes of asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma Action Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Advised to change home/school/work environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor

References(1) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and
self-management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552
(https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6017a4.htm?s_cid=mm6017a4_w)  
(2) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
(3) Zahran HS, Person CJ, Bailey C, Moorman JE. Predictors of asthma self-
management education among children and adults-2006-2007 Behavioral Risk
Factor Surveillance System Asthma Call Back Survey. J Asthma 2012; 49:98-106.

 Top of Page

### Taught how to use inhaler

how to use inhaler Data Standard | Taught how to use inhaler  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have ever used a prescription inhaler who have received (or their parents/guardians have received) instruction on inhaler use from a health professional.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have ever used a prescription inhaler who have received (or their parents/guardians have received) instruction on inhaler use from a health professional among all children with current asthma who have ever used a prescription inhaler.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years who
have ever used a prescription inhaler who have received (or their
parents/guardians have received) instruction on how to use it from a health
professional. _Survey Question (Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a health professional shown [child name] how to use [his/her] inhaler? (This includes showing parents for young children.)"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2003 & 2008 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: BRFSS Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), average annual estimates for survey years starting in 2006 for participating states. Aggregation of at least 2 survey years is recommended to obtain reliable estimates by state. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm).

Note: although the ACBS question wording _( "Did a health professional show
[him/her] how to use the inhaler?")_ differs from the NHIS question, both
questions are believed to yield comparable results  
  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions_ : used to determine
current asthma prevalence ):  
YES response to both of two survey questions  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)

Background

Results from the 2006-2007 BRFSS Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS) indicate that
78.6% of children with current asthma who have ever used a prescription
inhaler have been taught how to use their prescription inhaler. This measure
is related to the use of asthma action plans, which should include
instructions for daily treatment and are a prominent National Asthma Education
and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guideline recommendation (1). Results from the
2008 NHIS indicate that 44% of children with asthma had ever received an
asthma action plan (2).

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.2: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma with prescribed
inhalers who receive instruction on their use according to NAEPP guidelines,
http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/respiratory-
diseases/objectivesExternal.

Significance to disparitiesAccess to medical care for asthma and the quality
of care provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically
disadvantaged populations (1).Data considerationsThis item is a measurement of
the respondent's recall of receiving instruction on inhaler, and thus may be
an indicator of effective communication of education of patients and
caretakers. However, it may not reflect the rate at which health care
providers provide instruction on inhaler use given that no comparison to
medical records is performed.Data resourcesBehavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
System (BRFSS): Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), starting 2006.
(https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/2006/pdf/acbs_2006_child_codebook.pdfCdc-pdf )
The ACBS has the advantage of being collected annually and providing state
level estimates. ACBS is not collected in all states.Related data standards

Because being taught how to use an inhaler may be done at the same time as
other asthma education during a health care encounter, similar measures
include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to recognize early symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to respond to episodes of asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma Action Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Advised to change home/school/work environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor

References(1) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
(2) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and self-
management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 / 60
(17):547-552
(https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6017a4.htm?s_cid=mm6017a4_w)

 Top of Page

### Taught how to respond to episodes of asthma

Taught how to respond to episodes of asthma Data Standard | Taught how to
respond to episodes of asthma  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received (or their parents/guardians have received) education on how to respond to episodes of asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received (or their parents/guardians have received) education on how to respond to episodes of asthma among all children with asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma who have received (or their parents/guardians have received)
education on how to respond to episodes of asthma _Survey Question (Source:
NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER taught [child name] or [his/her] parent or guardian how to respond to episodes of asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2003, 2008, 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: BRFSS Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), average annual estimates for survey years starting in 2006 for participating states. Aggregation of at least 2 survey years is recommended to obtain reliable estimates by state. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm).  
Note: Although the ACBS question wording _( "Has a doctor or other health
professional ever taught you or {child name} what to do during an asthma
episode or attack?")_ differs from the NHIS question, the estimates are likely
to be comparable.  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used to determine
current asthma prevalence_  
YES response to both of two survey questions:  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)

Background

Results from the 2008 NHIS indicate that 78.3% of children with current asthma
had ever been taught to respond to an asthma episode (1). This measure is
related to the use of asthma action plans, which should include instructions
for how to recognize and handle worsening asthma and are a prominent to
National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guideline
recommendation (2).

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.3: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma who receive
education about appropriate response to an asthma episode, including
recognizing early signs and symptoms or monitoring peak flow results,
according NAEPP guidelines, http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-
objectives/topic/respiratory-diseases/objectivesExternal.

Significance to disparitiesAdults with less than a high school education were
less likely to report that they had been taught to respond to an asthma
episode (3). Access to medical care for asthma and the quality of care
provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically disadvantaged
populations (2).Data considerationsThis item is a measurement of the
respondent's recall of being taught how to respond to an episode of asthma,
and thus may be an indicator of effective communication of education of
patients and caretakers. However, it may not reflect the rate at which health
care providers provide education given that no comparison to medical records
is performed.Data resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS): Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), starting 2006. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/2006/pdf/acbs_2006_child_codebook.pdfCdc-pdf )

The ACBS has the advantage of being collected annually and providing state
level estimates. ACBS is not collected in all states.

Related data standards

Because being taught how to respond to episodes of asthma may be done at the
same time as other asthma education in a health care encounter, similar
measures include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to recognize early symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to use an inhaler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma Action Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Advised to change home/school/work environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor

References(1) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and
self-management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552
(https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6017a4.htm?s_cid=mm6017a4_w)  
(2) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
(3) Zahran HS, Person CJ, Bailey C, Moorman JE. Predictors of asthma self-
management education among children and adults-2006-2007 Behavioral Risk
Factor Surveillance System Asthma Call Back Survey. J Asthma 2012; 49:98-106.

 Top of Page

### Taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy

Taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy Data Standard | Taught how
to monitor peak flow for daily therapy  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received (or their guardians have received) education on how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received (or their guardians have received) education on how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy among all children with asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A* 

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma who have received (or their guardians have received) education
on how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy. _Survey Question (Source:
NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER taught [child name] or [his/her] parent or guardian how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2003, 2008, 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: BRFSS Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), average annual estimates for survey years starting in 2006 for participating states. Aggregation of at least 2 survey years is recommended to obtain reliable estimates by state. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm).  
Note: Although the ACBS question wording _( "Has a doctor or other health
professional ever taught you or {child's name} how to use a peak flow meter to
adjust his/her daily medications?")_ differs from the NHIS survey question,
the two questions are believed to generate comparable estimates.  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used to determine
current asthma prevalence_ :  
YES response to both of two survey questions:  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)

Background

Results from the 2008 NHIS indicate that 49.4% of children with current asthma
had ever been taught to use a peak flow meter (1). The EPR-3 recommends that
every patient who has asthma be taught to recognize symptom patterns and/or
Peak Expiratory Flow (PEF) measures that indicate inadequate asthma control.
There is evidence that asthma education about recognition of asthma symptoms
reduces risk and impairment (2).

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.3: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma who receive
education about appropriate response to an asthma episode, including
recognizing early signs and symptoms or monitoring peak flow results,
according to National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP)
guidelines, http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-
objectives/topic/respiratory- diseases/objectivesExternal.

Significance to disparitiesAccess to medical care for asthma and the quality
of care provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically
disadvantaged populations (2).Data considerationsThis item is a measurement of
the respondent's recall of being taught how to use a peak flow meter, and thus
may be an indicator of effective communication of education of patients and
caretakers. However, it may not reflect the rate at which health care
providers provide education given that no comparison to medical records is
performed.Data resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS): Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), starting 2006. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/2006/pdf/acbs_2006_child_codebook.pdfCdc-pdf)  
The ACBS has the advantage of being collected annually and providing state
level estimates. ACBS is not collected in all states.

Related data standards

Because being taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy may be done at
the same time as other asthma education in a health care encounter, similar
measures include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to recognize early symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to respond to episodes of asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to use an inhaler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma Action Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Advised to change home/school/work environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor

References(1) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and
self-management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552
(https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6017a4.htm?s_cid=mm6017a4_w)  
(2) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)

 Top of Page

### Advised to change home/school/work environment

Advised to change home/school/work environment Data Standard | Advised to
change home/school/work environment  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma whose parents/guardians have been advised to change their home/school/work environment to improve their asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma whose parents/guardians have been advised to change their home/school/work environment to improve their asthma among all children with current asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma whose parents/guardians have been advised to change their
home/school/work environment to improve their asthma. _Survey Question
(Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER advised you to change things in [child name]'s home, school, or work environment to improve [his/her] asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2003, 2008, 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: BRFSS Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), average annual estimates for survey years starting in 2006 for participating states. Aggregation of at least 2 survey years is recommended to obtain reliable estimates by state. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm).  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used to determine
current asthma prevalence_  
YES response to both of two survey questions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)  
Background | Results from the 2008 NHIS indicate that 50.6% of children with
current asthma had been given advice on environmental control of asthma (1).
One of the six priority messages of the National Asthma Education and
Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines is allergen and irritant exposure
control. The Guideline Implementation Panel recommends: "clinicians should
review each patient's exposure to allergens and irritants and provide a
multipronged strategy to reduce exposure to those allergens and irritants to
which a patient is sensitive and exposed, i.e., that make a patient's asthma
worse." (2)

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.5: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma who have been
advised by a health professional to change things in their home, school, and
work environments to reduce exposure to irritants or allergens to which they
are sensitive according to NAEPP guidelines,
http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/respiratory-
diseases/objectivesExternal.  
  
Significance to disparities | Adults with less than a high school education
were less likely to report that they had been given advice on environmental
control (3). Access to medical care for asthma and the quality of care
provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically disadvantaged
populations. Exposure to environmental factors that worsen asthma is also more
frequent in these populations (2).  
Data considerations | This item is a measurement of the respondent's recall of
being advised to change home/school/work environment, and thus may be an
indicator of effective communication of education of patients and caretakers.
However, it may not reflect the rate at which health care providers provide
education given that no comparison to medical records is performed.  
Data resources |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS): Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS), starting 2006. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/2006/pdf/acbs_2006_child_codebook.pdfCdc-pdf )  
The ACBS has the advantage of being collected annually and providing state
level estimates. ACBS is not collected in all states. ACBS data on advising to
make environmental changes is also available at
https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/acbs/table8a.htm.  
Related data standards | Because being advised to change home/school/work
environment may be done at the same time as other asthma education in a health
care encounter, similar measures include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to recognize early symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to respond to episodes of asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to use an inhaler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taught how to monitor peak flow for daily therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma Action Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor  
References | (1) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and
self-management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552
(https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6017a4.htm?s_cid=mm6017a4_w)  
(2) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
(3) Zahran HS, Person CJ, Bailey C, Moorman JE. Predictors of asthma self-
management education among children and adults-2006-2007 Behavioral Risk
Factor Surveillance System Asthma Call Back Survey. J Asthma 2012; 49:98-106.  
  
 Top of Page

### Asked about symptom frequency

Asked about symptom frequency Data Standard | Asked about symptom frequency  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma whose health care provider asked them how often they had asthma symptoms at the last visit.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma whose health care provider asked them how often they had asthma symptoms at the last visit among all children with asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma whose health care provider asked them how often they had asthma
symptoms at the last visit. _Survey Question (Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" At his/her last visit, did [child name]'s doctor or other health professional ask HOW OFTEN [he/she] had asthma symptoms?"_

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used to determine
current asthma prevalence_  
YES response to both of two survey questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)  
Background | Two of the six priority messages of the National Asthma Education
and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines are asthma severity and asthma
control, which are both assessed by asking about symptom frequency (among
other things). The Guideline Implementation Panel recommends: "all patients
should have an initial severity assessment based on measures of current
impairment" and "at planned follow up visits, asthma patients should review
level of control … based on multiple measures of current impairment." Measures
of impairment include frequency of symptoms(1).

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.7: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma whose doctor
assessed their asthma control at the last visit according to NAEPP guidelines,
http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/respiratory-
diseases/objectivesExternal.  
  
Significance to disparities | Access to medical care for asthma and the
quality of care provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically
disadvantaged populations(1).  
Data considerations | This item is a measurement of the respondent's recall of
being asked about symptoms frequency, and thus may be an indicator of
effective communication between patients and caretakers. However, it may not
reflect the rate at which health care providers ask about symptoms given that
no comparison to medical records is performed.  
Data resources |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) (https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/nhis/2013/data.htm)  
Related data standards | Because being asked about symptom frequency may be
done at the same time as other asthma management assessment in a health care
encounter, a similar measure include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about relief inhaler frequency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about limitation of daily activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor  
References | (1) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
  
 Top of Page

### Asked about relief inhaler frequency

Asked about relief inhaler frequency Data Standard | Asked about relief
inhaler frequency  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma whose health care provider asked about frequency of inhaler use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children age 0-17 years with current asthma whose health care provider asked about frequency of inhaler use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma whose health care provider asked about frequency of inhaler
use. _Survey Question (Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" At his/her last visit, did [child name]'s doctor or other health professional ask HOW OFTEN he/she used relief inhaler at the last visit?" _

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used to determine
current asthma prevalence_  
YES response to both of two survey questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)  
Background | Two of the six priority messages of the National Asthma Education
and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines are asthma severity and asthma
control, which are both assessed by asking about relief inhaler use frequency
(among other things). The Guideline Implementation Panel recommends: "all
patients should have an initial severity assessment based on measures of
current impairment" and "at planned follow up visits, asthma patients should
review level of control … based on multiple measures of current impairment."
Measures of impairment include relief inhaler use frequency(1).

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.7: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma whose doctor
assessed their asthma control at the last visit according to NAEPP guidelines,
http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/respiratory-
diseases/objectivesExternal.  
  
Significance to disparities | Access to medical care for asthma and the
quality of care provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically
disadvantaged populations(1).  
Data considerations | This item is a measurement of the respondent's recall of
being asked about frequency of relief inhaler use, and thus may be an
indicator of effective communication between patients and caretakers. However,
it may not reflect the rate at which health care providers ask about
medication use given that no comparison to medical records is performed.  
Data resources |  
Related data standards | Because being asked about relief inhaler frequency
may be done at the same time as other asthma management assessments at a
health care encounter, similar measures include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about symptom frequency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about limitation of daily activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor  
References | (1) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
  
 Top of Page

### Asked about activity limitation

Asked about activity limitation Data Standard | Asked about activity
limitation  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma whose health care provider asked how often asthma symptoms limited daily activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children age 0-17 years with current asthma whose health care provider asked how often asthma symptoms limited daily activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma whose health care provider asked how often asthma symptoms
limited daily activities. _Survey Question (Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" At his/her last visit, did [child name]'s doctor or other health professional ask HOW OFTEN asthma symptoms limited [his/her] daily activities?"_

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used to determine
current asthma prevalence_  
YES response to both of two survey questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)  
Background | Two of the six priority messages of the National Asthma Education
and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines are asthma severity and asthma
control, which are both assessed by asking about relief inhaler use frequency
(among other things). The Guideline Implementation Panel recommends: "all
patients should have an initial severity assessment based on measures of
current impairment" and "at planned follow up visits, asthma patients should
review level of control … based on multiple measures of current impairment."
Measures of impairment include relief inhaler use frequency(1).

This measure is related to Healthy People 2020 Respiratory Disease Objective
RD-7.7: Increase the proportion of persons with current asthma whose doctor
assessed their asthma control at the last visit according to NAEPP guidelines,
http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/respiratory-
diseases/objectivesExternal.  
  
Significance to disparities | Access to medical care for asthma and the
quality of care provided is often lower among minority and socioeconomically
disadvantaged populations (1).  
Data considerations | This item is a measurement of the respondent's recall of
being asked about frequency of activity limitation, and thus may be an
indicator of effective communication between patients and caretakers. However,
it may not reflect the rate at which health care providers ask about
medication use given that no comparison to medical records is performed.  
Data resources |  
Related data standards | Because being asked about activity limitation may be
done at the same time as other asthma management assessments at a health care
encounter, similar measures include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about symptom frequency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asked about relief inhaler frequency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor  
References | (1) National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Guidelines
Implementation Panel Report for: Expert Panel Report 3--Guidelines for the
Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. NIH Publication No. 09-6147. December 2008
(http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/gip_rpt.pdfCdc-pdfExternal)  
  
 Top of Page

### Flu vaccination

Flu Vaccination Data Standard | Flu vaccination  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma receiving a flu vaccine in the past year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma receiving a flu vaccine in past year among all children with asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ :  
Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who have received
influenza vaccination in the past 12 months. _Survey questions (Source NHIS)_
:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" During the past 12 months, has [child's name] had a flu vaccination? A flu vaccination is usually given in the fall and protects against influenza for the flu season."_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Additional information about mode of vaccination:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Was this a shot, or was it a vaccine sprayed in the nose?"_

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factors Surveillance System (BRFSS): Asthma Call-back Survey (ACBS), starting 2006. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/2012/pdf/acbs_2012_child_llcp_codebook.pdfCdc-pdf). Note: The survey questions for the ACBS differ from NHIS, but likely give comparable estimates: YES response to either: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _" A flu shot is an influenza vaccine injected in your arm. During the past 12 months, did [child's name] have a flu shot?" OR>/em>_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _" A flu vaccine that is sprayed in the nose is called FluMistTM. During the past 12 months, did [he/she] have a flu vaccine that was sprayed in [his/her] nose?_  
Denominator definition | _Denominator (at-risk rate)_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used to determine
current asthma prevalence_ :  
YES response to both of two survey questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that your child had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does your child still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)  
Background | During the 2013-2014 influenza season, 46.3% of high-risk adults
ages 18-64 received influenza vaccine. (1) Asthma appears to be related to
influenza infection. Children and adults with asthma are at higher risk for
influenza-related adverse health outcomes, including pneumonia,
hospitalization for acute respiratory disease, and death. Because 5 to 10% of
the US population has asthma, the potential public health impact of influenza
infection on this vulnerable subgroup is large(2).

Healthy People 2020 Objective IID-12: Increase the percentage of children and
adults who are vaccinated annually against seasonal influenza.
http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topicsobjectives2020/objectiveslist.aspx?topicId=23External.  
  
Significance to disparities | Persistent disparities in influenza mortality
between American Indian/Alaska Native persons and whites have been
documented(3). Significant disparities by race/ethnicity were found in
exposure, susceptibility to complications, and access to health care during
the U.S. H1N1 influenza pandemic(4).

Disparities in influenza vaccination coverage between non-Hispanic whites and
black, Hispanic and other and multiple race children have been reported(5).
However, more recent data show similar vaccination rates for children of all
races/ethnicities(6).  
  
Data considerations | Estimates are not specific to one influenza season;
influenza vaccinations reported in the past 12 months could have been received
for one or more of up to three prior influenza seasons.  
Data resources |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), Asthma Call-Back Survey (ACBS) (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FluVaxView: influenza vaccination coverage estimates by season: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/fluvaxview/)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chronic Disease Indicators: Influenza vaccination among non-institutionalized adults aged 18-64 years with asthma (https://www.cdc.gov/cdi/definitions/asthma.html)

(2) Eisner MD. Asthma and influenza vaccination. Chest 2003;124:775-777.  
(3) Groom AG, Hennessy TW, Singleton RJ, et al. Pneumonia and influenza
mortality among American Indian and Alaska Native People, 1990-2009. AJPH
2014;104:S460-S469.  
(4) Quinn SC, Kumar S, Freimuth VS, et al. Racial disparities in exposure,
susceptibility, and access to health care in the US H1N1 influenza pandemic.
Am J Public Health. 2011;101:285-293\.
http://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/pdf/10.2105/AJPH.2009.188029External  
(5) CDC. Influenza vaccination coverage--United States, 2000-2010\. In: CDC
health disparities and inequalities report--United States, 2011. MMWR
2011;60(Suppl; January 14, 2011):38-41.  
(6) CDC. Seasonal influenza vaccination coverage - United States, 2009-10 and
2010-11. In: CDC health disparities and inequalities report--United States,
2013. MMWR Surveill Summ. 2013 Nov 22;62 Suppl 3:65-8.
https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/pdf/other/su6203.pdfCdc-pdf  
  
 Top of Page

### Routine asthma visits in past year

Routine asthma visits in past year Data Standard | Routine asthma visits in
past year  
---|---  
Measure | Annual estimate of:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with one or more routine checkup visits for asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with one or more routine checkup visits for asthma among all children with asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma who have had at least one routine follow-up visit in the past
12 months. _Survey question (Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" During the past 12 months, how many times did [child's name] see a doctor or other health professional for a routine checkup for [his/her] asthma? Please do not include emergency room visits, visits to urgent care centers, or other visits for acute care for an asthma episode or attack."_

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factors Surveillance System (BRFSS): Child Asthma Call-back Survey (ACBS), starting 2006. (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/acbs/index.htm)  
Note: Although, the ACBS question wording _(which omits the phrase about
excluding ED and urgent care center visits)_ differs from the NHIS question,
the two surveys likely provide comparable estimates.  
Denominator definition | _Denominator for at-risk rate_ :  
Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions used
to determine current asthma prevalence_  
YES response to both questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that [child's name] had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does [child's name] still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS)), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)  
Background | For better asthma care and management, the National Asthma
Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) Expert Panel recommends regular
follow-up visit with a frequency of visits depending on the level of asthma
control(1). Patients who have intermittent or mild or moderate persistent
asthma that has been under control for at least 3 months should be seen by a
clinician for assessment of asthma control about every 6 months, whereas
patients who have uncontrolled and/or severe persistent asthma and those who
need additional supervision to help them follow their treatment plan should be
seen more often. Routine follow-up visit can be assessed at national and state
level.

Nearly 74% of children aged 0-17 years reported routine checkup visits for
their asthma based on 2006-2007 ACBS data analyses findings and those who
reported at least one routine checkup visit are more likely to receive self-
management education and appropriate medication than those who did not(2).

Healthy People 2020: Respiratory Diseases Objectives (RD-7.6): Increase the
proportion of persons with current asthma who have had at least one routine
follow-up visit in the past 12 months according to NAEPP guidelines.
(https://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics- objectives/topic/respiratory-
diseases/objectivesExternal)  
  
Significance to disparities |  
Data considerations | Respondents were specifically asked to exclude ER
visits, visits to urgent care centers, or other visits for acute care for an
asthma episode or attack  
Data resources |  
Related data standards | Having routine follow-up visits may indicate higher
socio-economic status (SES) and better health care coverage. Therefore,
routine care visits measure may also be a marker for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Usual source of health care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Unable to pay medical bills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Personal doctor  
References | (1) National Institutes of Health, National Asthma Education and
Prevention Program. Expert panel report 3: guidelines for the diagnosis and
management of asthma. Expert panel report 3. Bethesda, MD: National Institutes
of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. 2007. Available at:
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/asthma/index.htmExternal. Accessed
February 19, 2015.  
(2) Zahran HS, Person CJ, Bailey C, Moorman JE. Predictors of asthma self-
management education among children and adults-2006-2007 Behavioral Risk
Factor Surveillance System Asthma Call Back Survey. J Asthma 2012; 49:98-106.  
  
 Top of Page

### Any preventive medication use

Any preventive medication use Data Standard | Any preventive medication use  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who are currently taking a preventive asthma medication.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who are currently taking a preventive asthma medication among all children with asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children with current asthma
who used any form of preventive asthma medicine _Survey question (Source:
NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" The second kind of asthma medication is different from inhalers used for quick relief. It is the preventive kind that is used to protect your lungs and keep you from having attacks. It can be either a pill or an inhaler.  
Is [fill: S.C. name] NOW taking a preventive asthma medication every day or
almost every day, less often, or never?"_ Note: This question is in a period
asthma module fielded in 2013.

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2008, 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
Denominator definition | _Denominator for at-risk rate_ :  
Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions_ used
to determine current asthma prevalence  
YES response to both questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that [child's name] had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does [child's name] still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :  
National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward
(https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
  
Background | Asthma symptoms can be controlled with appropriate medical
treatment, self-management education, and by avoiding exposure to
environmental allergens and irritants that can trigger an attack according to
the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines(1).
Taking a preventive asthma medication is recommended to control asthma
symptoms for people with persistent asthma symptoms.

Approximately 34% percent of persons (31.3% children and 34.4% adults) with
current asthma had taken prescription preventive asthma medicine in 2008.
Anti-inflammatory medications, especially inhaled corticosteroids are most
commonly prescribed preventive asthma medications to control asthma
symptoms(2).  
  
Significance to disparities | Non-Hispanic black, Mexican American children
and those lacking health insurance are less likely to use preventive asthma
medications(3). Furthermore, in a nationally representative population of
children with asthma who were prescribed preventive asthma medication, non-
Hispanic black children were more likely than non-Hispanic white children to
discontinue preventive asthma medications(4).  
Data considerations |  
Data resources |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and self-management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 / 60(17):547-552  
Related data standards | Preventive asthma medication use may indicate
uncontrolled asthma and persistent asthma. Preventive asthma medication use
may be associated with measures on asthma severity and asthma control:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overuse of short-acting beta agonists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Daytime symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nighttime awakenings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Activity limitation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Short acting beta agonist use  
References | (1) National Institutes of Health, National Asthma Education and
Prevention Program. Expert panel report 3: guidelines for the diagnosis and
management of asthma. Expert panel report 3. Bethesda, MD: National Institutes
of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. 2007. Available at:
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/asthma/index.htmExternal.  
(2) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and self-
management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552  
(3) Kit BK, Simon AE, Ogden CL, Akinbami LJ. Trends in preventive asthma
medication use among children and adolescents, 1988-2008.Pediatrics. 2012
Jan;129(1):62-9.  
(4) Capo-Ramos DE, Duran C, Simon AE, Akinbami LJ, Schoendorf KC. Preventive
asthma medication discontinuation among children enrolled in fee-for- service
Medicaid. J Asthma. 2014 Aug;51(6):618-26  
  
 Top of Page

### Regular use of preventive medication

Regular use of preventive medication Data Standard | Regular use of preventive
medication  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimate of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who were taking a preventive asthma medication every day or almost every day.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who were taking a preventive asthma medication every day or almost every day among all children with asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children with current asthma
who were taking a preventive asthma medication every day or almost every day.
_Survey question (Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Is [fill: S.C. name] NOW taking a preventive asthma medication every day or almost every day, less often, or never?"_

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
Denominator definition | _Denominator for at-risk rate_ :  
Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions_ used
to determine current asthma prevalence  
YES response to both questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that [child's name] had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does [child's name] still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :  
National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward
(https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
  
Background | Asthma symptoms can be controlled with appropriate medical
treatment, self-management education, and by avoiding exposure to
environmental allergens and irritants that can trigger an attack according to
the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines(1).
Taking a preventive asthma medication every day is an important step in
controlling asthma symptoms for persons with persistent as.

In 2008, 33.5 percent of persons (31.3% children and 34.4% adults) with
current asthma had taken prescription preventive asthma medicine(2). Anti-
inflammatory medications, especially inhaled corticosteroids are most commonly
prescribed preventive asthma medications to control asthma symptoms(2).  
  
Significance to disparities | Minority race and low parental education have
been associated with underuse of preventive asthma medication among those
prescribed such medications(3). Having a primary care physician, a written
asthma action pan, a follow up visit, and having seen an asthma specialist
have been associated with lower rates of preventive asthma medication
underuse(3).  
Data considerations | Starting 2013, the question differentiates between those
who take a prescription asthma preventive medicine every day or almost every
day, less often, or never. Persons are classified as having used preventive
asthma medicine properly if they responded "every day or almost every day" to
the question listed above.  
Data resources |  
Related data standards | Proper use of preventive medication use may influence
asthma symptoms and control:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overuse of short-acting beta agonists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Daytime symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nighttime awakenings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Activity limitation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Short acting beta agonist use  
References | (1) National Institutes of Health, National Asthma Education and
Prevention Program. Expert panel report 3: guidelines for the diagnosis and
management of asthma. Expert panel report 3. Bethesda, MD: National Institutes
of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. 2007. Available at:
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/asthma/index.htmExternal  
(2) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and self-
management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552  
(3) Finkelstein JA1, Lozano P, Farber HJ, Miroshnik I, Lieu TA. Underuse of
controller medications among Medicaid-insured children with asthma. Arch
Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2002 Jun;156(6):562-7.  
  
 Top of Page

### Short acting beta agonist overuse

Short acting beta agonist overuse Data Standard | Short acting beta agonist
overuse  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimate of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who used more than three canisters of PRESCRIPTION inhaler that gives QUICK relief from asthma symptoms in the past three months.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who used more than three canisters of PRESCRIPTION inhaler that gives QUICK relief from asthma symptoms in the past three months among all children with asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates_  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children with current asthma
who used more than three canisters of PRESCRIPTION inhaler that gives QUICK
relief from asthma symptoms in the past three months. _Survey question
(Source: NHIS)_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" DURING THE PAST 3 MONTHS did [PERSON] use more than three canisters of this type of inhaler?"_

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2008, 2013 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
Denominator definition | _Denominator for at-risk rate_ :  
Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions_ used
to determine current asthma prevalence  
YES response to both questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that [child's name] had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does [child's name] still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :  
National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward
(https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
  
Background | Asthma symptoms can be controlled with appropriate medical
treatment, self-management education, and by avoiding exposure to
environmental allergens and irritants that can trigger an attack according to
the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines.
Overuse of quick relief medicine from asthma symptoms may indicate inadequate
asthma control and the need to initiate or adjust anti-inflammatory
medications. Furthermore, excessive use of relief medications is associated
with poorer quality of life and increased risk for future asthma
exacerbations.(1).

Respiratory Disease Objective RD-7.4: Increase the proportion of persons with
current asthma who do not use more than one canister of short-acting inhaled
beta agonist per month according to National Asthma Education and Prevention
Program (NAEPP) guidelines. (2,3)  
  
Significance to disparities | In 2008, 12.1% of persons with current asthma
did used more than one canister of short-acting inhaled beta agonist (SABA)
per month. Using more than one canister of SABA use per month is considered
overuse and may indicate inadequate asthma control and the need to initiate or
adjust anti-inflammatory medications(2).  
Data considerations |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Note that this indicator differs from "Use of short-acting beta agonists" which measures SABA use according to NAEPP criteria for asthma control (2). SABA overuse, in contrast, specifically addresses excessive use that may be associated with poor outcomes (1).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions asked to determine inhaler overuse in the ACBS include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _" Has [he/she] ever used a prescription inhaler?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _" In the past 3 months has [child's name] taken prescription asthma medicine using an inhaler?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _" How many canisters of this inhaler has [he/she] used in the past 3 months?"_ This question was asked for each quick relief medications, but is not available for nebulizers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions for nebulizers ask about time used per day or per week, which can't be used to quantify overuse of nebulizers.  
Data resources |  
Related data standards | SABA overuse may indicate uncontrolled asthma and
inadequate preventive asthma medication use:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventive medication use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Daytime symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nighttime awakenings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Activity limitation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SABA use  
References | (1) Schatz M, Zeiger RS, Vollmer WM, Mosen D, Apter AJ, Stibolt
TB, et al. Validation of a beta-agonist long-term asthma control scale derived
from computerized pharmacy data. J Allergy Clin Immunol 2006;117:995-1000.  
(2) National Institutes of Health, National Asthma Education and Prevention
Program. Expert panel report 3: guidelines for the diagnosis and management of
asthma. Expert panel report 3. Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health,
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. 2007. Available at:
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/asthma/index.htmExternal  
(3)Healthy People 2020; Respiratory Diseases Objectives. available at:
http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/respiratory-
diseases/objectivesExternal  
  
 Top of Page

### Action taken to address environmental risks

Action taken to address environmental risks Data Standard | Action taken to
address environmental risks  
---|---  
Measure | _Annual estimates of_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Count: Number of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who followed the advice of a doctor or health professional to change things at home, school, or work to improve their asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * At-risk rate: Percent of children aged 0-17 years with current asthma who followed the advice of a doctor or health professional to change things at home, school, or work to improve their asthma.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Population-based rate: N/A*

_* This outcome is primarily of interest among persons with asthma
--comparisons between groups should account for differences in asthma
prevalence, and thus be made using at-risk rates._  
  
Numerator definition | _Numerator_ : Number of children aged 0-17 years with
current asthma who followed the advice of a doctor or health professional to
change things at home, school, or work to improve their asthma _Survey
question (Source: NHIS)_ :  
YES or "was told no changes needed" response:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional ever advised you to change things in (your/child's) home, school, or work to improve (your/his/her) asthma?"_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * AND _response "some/most/all" to "How much of this advice did you follow?"_

_Benchmark data source_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) periodic modules: 2008 (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)  
Denominator definition | _Denominator for at-risk rate_ : Number of children
aged 0-17 years with current asthma _Survey questions_ used to determine
current asthma prevalence:  
YES response to both questions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Has a doctor or other health professional EVER told you that [child's name] had asthma?"_ AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _" Does [child's name] still have asthma?"_

_Benchmark data sources_ :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National: National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), 2001 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/quest_data_related_1997_forward.htm)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), data available for children 0-17 years of age for selected states, 2006 onward (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/)  
Background | Asthma symptoms can be controlled with appropriate medical
treatment, self-management education, and by avoiding exposure to
environmental allergens and irritants that can trigger an attack according to
the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) guidelines(1).

Healthy People 2020: Respiratory Diseases Objectives (RD-7.5): Increase the
proportion of persons with current asthma who have been advised by a health
professional to change things in their home, school, and work environments to
reduce exposure to irritants or allergens to which they are sensitive
according to National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP)
guidelines (http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-
objectives/topic/respiratory-diseases/objectivesExternal).  
  
Significance to disparities | In 2008, 50.6% of children with current asthma
were advised by a health professional to change things in their home, school,
and work environments to reduce exposure to irritants or allergens to which
they are sensitive. Receiving advice on environmental control did not differ
by race or ethnicity(2).  
Data considerations |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The measure is about ever receiving advice to change things in home, school, or work and how much of this advice was followed, but does not measure how long or how effectively the advice was followed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Given that those who followed advice are more likely to recall receiving advice, this measure may provide reliable estimates of the number/percentage of children for whom a caregiver recalls receiving advice and making changes in their home, school, or work.  
Data resources | BRFSS Asthma Call-back Survey (ACBS):  
Child prevalence tables 2006-2010:
https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/acbs/acbstables.htm (see Table 8a: Estimated
percent advised to make environmental changes for active and inactive asthma
status among children ever diagnosed with asthma by state/territory - BRFSS
Asthma Call-back Survey, United States, 2006-2010).  
Related data standards | Because following advice on environmental control is
one of several asthma education and management components, this measure may
also be associated with other effective asthma management practices:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine asthma visits in past year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Any preventive medication use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Regular use of preventive medication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Short acting beta agonist overuse  
References | (1) National Institutes of Health, National Asthma Education and
Prevention Program. Expert panel report 3: guidelines for the diagnosis and
management of asthma. Expert panel report 3. Bethesda, MD: National Institutes
of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. 2007. Available at:
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/asthma/index.htmExternal. Accessed
February 19, 2015.  
(2) Vital Signs: Asthma prevalence, disease characteristics and self-
management education-United States, 2001-2009. MMWR May 6, 2011 /
60(17):547-552
https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6017a4.htm?s_cid=mm6017a4_w  
  
 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: July 14, 2016

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home Asthma

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn How to Control Asthmaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asthma and Severe Weather
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochures, Fact Sheets, & Action Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidance on Spirometry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Triggersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Indoors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * In the Workplace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outdoors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managementplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coronavirus (COVID-19)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Action Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Flu Shots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How to Use your Asthma Inhaler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Videos and Audio Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Controlling Asthma in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sample Newsletter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sample Press Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Asthma Control Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * America Breathing Easier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CCARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guide for State Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Interventionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community GuideâEvidence-based
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Potentially Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methodology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Case Studies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bibliography
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adults â Homeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adults â Hospital Emergency Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adults â Hospital Inpatients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adults â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adults â Pharmacies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adults â Worksite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adults â Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Children â Homeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Children â Hospital emergency departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Children â Hospital inpatients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Children â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Children â Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Children â Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mixed Age Groups â Homeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mixed Age Groups â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mixed Age Groups â Pharmacies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Women â Homeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pregnant Women â Medical clinics/physiciansâ office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health care providers â Medical clinics/physiciansâ officeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health care providers â Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Parents â Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breathing Easier Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and City Asthma Contacts and Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Historical Information:Â Asthma at a Glance 2002-2010plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2010 At A Glanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Future Directions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2007 At A Glanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FY 2006 Activity Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Future Directions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2005 At A Glanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Activity Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Future Directions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2003 At A Glanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * State Activity Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Future Directions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2002 At A Glanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDCâs National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control Program Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * State Activity Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Future Directions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1\. Avoiding Evaluation Roadblocks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 1A. Focus On: Walking Through the Steps and Standards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2\. Getting Started
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 3\. Describing and Focusing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 3A. Focus On: Thinking About Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 4\. Gathering and Using Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 4A. Focus On: Data Collection Choices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 4B. Focus on Using Mixed Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 5\. Purpose Informs Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Evaluation Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tool for Assessing Asthma Referral Systems (TAARS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources for Health Professionals and Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Got asthma? Get your flu shots!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma: A Presentation of Asthma Management and Prevention  
plus icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preface
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Glossary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * School and Childcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Publications on Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data, Statistics, and Surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data Visualizationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Prevalence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mortality
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Most Recent Asthma Dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Most Recent National Asthma Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Most Recent State or Territory Asthma Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archived Most Recent Asthma Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asthma Surveillance dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NHIS Asthma Prevalence Dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2014 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2013 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2012 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2011 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2010 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2009 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2008 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2007 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2006 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2005 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2004 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2003 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2002 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2001 Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BRFSS Asthma Prevalence Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Call Back survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * AsthmaStatsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Attacks among People with Current Asthma, 2014â2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Uncontrolled Asthma among Adults, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Uncontrolled Asthma among Children, 2012â2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma-related physician office visits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma and Fair or Poor Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma as the Underlying Cause of Death
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Flu Vaccination among Adults with Current Asthma 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Flu Vaccination among Children with Current Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Usual Place for Medical Care among Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Number of Visits to a Health Care Provider(s) among Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Care Coverage among Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma-related Missed School Days among Children aged 5â17 Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Severity among Adults with Current Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Severity among Children with Current Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overuse of quick-relief medication among persons with active asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use of long-term control medication among persons with active asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Uncontrolled Asthma among Persons with Current Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma and Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Percentage of People with Asthma who Smoke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insurance coverage and barriers to care for people with asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NACP Grantee Profile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asthma Prevalence in the U.S.: Slide set [PPTX â 3.8 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Asthma Questions by Data Source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data Analysis Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Historical BRFSS Adult Asthma Moduleplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adult Asthma Module 2007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adult Asthma Module 2006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adult Asthma Module 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adult Asthma Module 2004
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adult Asthma Module 2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adult Asthma Module 2002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NCHS Asthma FastStats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Agencies Working on Asthmaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Legislation and Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reports and Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Measures to Identify and Track Racial Disparities in Childhood Asthmaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Asthma Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevalence and Outcome Measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Table 10: Examples of Some Possible Response Scenarios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Technical Appendix
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Survey Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Definition of Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma and Community Health Branch

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

