Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002584.htm    
                                Description: Estrogen is a female hormone. Estrogen overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of a product containing the hormone. This can be by accident or on purpose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Estrogen overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002584.htm

# Estrogen overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Estrogen is a female hormone. Estrogen overdose occurs when someone takes more
than the normal or recommended amount of a product containing the hormone.
This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Estrogen

## Where Found

Estrogen is an ingredient in birth control pillsÂ and hormone replacement
therapy products.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of an estrogen overdose include:

    * Breast tenderness
    * Drowsiness
    * Excessive vaginal bleeding (2 to 7 days after overdose)
    * Fluid retention
    * Headache
    * Emotional changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Skin rash
    * Discolored urine

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * When it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

If an emergency room visit is necessary, the provider will measure and monitor
the person's vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and
blood pressure. Symptoms will be treated. Treatment may include:

    * Activated charcoal (in extreme cases)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Intravenous (IV) fluids in serious cases
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Serious symptoms are very unlikely.

## References

Aronson JK. Estrogens. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:122-151.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Hormone Replacement
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HormoneReplacementTherapy_thumb.jpg)Hormone
Replacement Therapy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

