Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000847.htm    
                                Description: If you or a loved one has cancer, you want to do everything possible to fight the disease. Unfortunately, there are companies who take advantage of this and promote phony cancer treatments that do not    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Protecting yourself from cancer scams

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000847.htm

# Protecting yourself from cancer scams

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you or a loved one has cancer, you want to do everything possible to fight
the disease. Unfortunately, there are companies who take advantage of this and
promote phony cancer treatments that do not work. These treatments come in all
forms, from creams and salves to mega-doses of vitamins. Using unproven
treatments can be a waste of money. At worst, they can even be harmful. Learn
to protect yourself by learning how to spot possible cancer scams.

## How Scams can Hurt you

Using an unproven treatment can be harmful in a few ways:

    * It can delay your use of an approved treatment. When you are treating cancer, time is precious. A delay in treatment can allow the cancer to grow and spread. This can make it harder to treat.
    * Some of these products interfere with standard cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy or radiation. This can make your treatment less effective.
    * In some cases, these treatments can be harmful. For example, black salves, touted as a miracle cancer cure, can burn off layers of your skin. 

## How to Spot a Scam

There are some easy ways to spot a cancer treatment scam. Here are a few:

    * The drug or product claims to treat all types of cancer. This is a tip-off because all cancers are different and no one drug can treat them all.
    * The product includes claims such as "miracle cure," "secret ingredient," "scientific breakthrough," or "ancient remedy."
    * It is advertised using personal stories from people. In many cases, these are paid actors, but even if they are real, such stories do not prove a product works.
    * The product includes a money-back guarantee.
    * The ads for the product use lots of technical or medical jargon.
    * The product is deemed safe because it is "natural." Not all natural products are safe. And even natural products that are generally safe, like vitamins, may not be safe during cancer treatment.

## Look for FDA Approval

It is hard to know if a product or drug really works just from reading claims
or studies. That is why it is important to use cancer treatments that have
been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). To get FDA
approval, drugs must go through extensive testing to make sure they are
effective and safe. Using a cancer treatment that has not been approved by the
FDA is risky at best, and can even hurt you.

Some types of complementary and alternative medicine may help ease the side
effects of cancer and its treatment. But none of these treatments have been
proven to treat or cure cancer.

## Investigational Drugs

There is a difference between an unproven treatment and investigational drugs.
These are drugs that are being studied to see if they work well to treat
cancer. People with cancer may take investigational drugs as part of a
clinical trial. This is a study to test how well the drug works, and to check
its side effects and safety. Clinical trials are the last step before a drug
can get approval from the FDA.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you are curious about a cancer treatment you have heard about, your best
bet is to ask your health care provider about it. This includes complementary
or alternative treatments. Your provider can weigh the medical evidence and
help you decide if it is an option for you. Your provider can also make sure
it will not interfere with your cancer treatment.

## Alternative Names

Scams - cancer treatment; Fraud - cancer treatment

## References

Federal Trade Commission Consumer Information website. Cancer treatment scams.
www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0104-cancer-treatment-scams. Updated September
2008. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Access to experimental cancer drugs.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/drugs/investigational-drug-access-fact-
sheet. Updated April 17, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website.
Complementary and integrative approaches for cancer symptoms and treatment
side effects. nccih.nih.gov/health/providers/digest/cancer. Updated November
19, 2015. Accessed August 14, 2018.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Products claiming to "cure" cancer are
a cruel deception. www.fda.gov/forconsumers/consumerupdates/ucm048383.htm.
Updated April 25, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer Alternative Therapies
    * Health Fraud

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

