Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000932.htm    
                                Description: When you have cancer, you want to do all you can to treat the cancer and feel better. This is why many people turn to integrative medicine. Integrative medicine (IM) refers to any type of medical practice    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Integrative medicine for cancer treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000932.htm

# Integrative medicine for cancer treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have cancer, you want to do all you can to treat the cancer and feel
better. This is why many people turn to integrative medicine. Integrative
medicine (IM) refers to any type of medical practice or product that is not
standard care. It includes things like acupuncture, meditation, and massage.
Standard care for cancer includes surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, and
biological therapy.

Integrative medicine is complementary care used alongside standard care. It
combines the best of both types of care. IM encourages shared decision making
between providers and patients. This is when patients take an active role in
their care as a partner with their provider.

Note that some types of IM may help manage cancer symptoms and side effects of
treatment, but none have been proven to treat cancer.

## Talk With Your Doctor First

Before using any type of IM, you should talk with your health care provider
first. This includes taking vitamins and other supplements. Some treatments
that are usually safe can be risky for people with cancer. For example, St.
John's wort can interfere with some cancer drugs. And high doses of vitamin C
can affect how well radiation and chemotherapy work.

Also, not all therapies work the same for everyone. Your provider can help you
decide if a specific treatment might help you rather than causing potential
harm.

## When IM Can Help

IM may help relieve common side effects of cancer or cancer treatment, such as
fatigue, anxiety, pain, and nausea. Some cancer centers even offer these
therapies as part of their care.

Many types of IM have been studied. Those that may help people with cancer
include:

    *  **Acupuncture.** This ancient Chinese practice may help relieve nausea and vomiting. It also may help ease cancer pain and hot flashes. Be sure your acupuncturist uses sterile needles, since cancer puts you at higher risk for infection.
    *  **Aromatherapy.** This treatment uses fragrant oils to improve health or mood. It also may help ease pain, nausea, stress, and depression. Although generally safe, these oils can cause allergic reactions, headaches, and nausea in some people.
    *  **Massage therapy.** This type of bodywork may help relieve anxiety, nausea, pain, and depression. Before you have massage therapy, ask your health care provider if the therapist should avoid any areas of your body.
    *  **Meditation.** Practicing meditation has been shown to ease anxiety, fatigue, stress, and sleep problems.
    *  **Ginger.** This herb may help ease the nausea of cancer treatment when it is used with standard anti-nausea medicines.
    *  **Yoga.** This ancient mind-body practice may help relieve stress, anxiety, and depression. Before doing yoga, be sure to check with your health care provider to see if there are any poses or kinds of classes you should avoid.
    *  **Biofeedback.** This therapy may help ease the pain of cancer. It also may help with sleeping problems. 

In general, these therapies are safe for most people and pose little health
risk. But before using them, you should always ask your provider if they are
safe for you.

## The Limits of IM

Currently, no types of IM have been shown to help cure or treat cancer. While
many products and treatments are touted as cures for cancer, there are no
studies that back up these claims. Before trying any product that makes such
claims, talk with your provider first. Some products can interfere with other
cancer treatments.

## Finding an IM Practitioner

If you want to try an IM treatment, choose your practitioner wisely. Here are
some tips:

    * Ask your health care providers or cancer center if they can help you find a practitioner.
    * Ask about the practitioner's training and certification.
    * Make sure the person has a license to practice the treatment in your state.
    * Look for a practitioner who has worked with people with your type of cancer and who is willing to work with your provider on your treatment. 

## References

Greenlee H, Balneaves LG, Carlson LE, et al; Society for Integrative Oncology.
Clinical practice guidelines on the use of integrative therapies as supportive
care in patients treated for breast cancer. _J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr_.
2014;2014(50):346-358. PMID: 25749602 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25749602.

National Cancer Institute website. Complementary and alternative medicine for
patients. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/cam/patient. UpdatedÂ August
30, 2018. AccessedÂ April 16, 2019.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. Are you
considering complementary medicine?
nccam.nih.gov/health/decisions/consideringcam.htm. Updated September 2016.
Accessed February 15, 2018.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. 6 things you
need to know about cancer and complementary health approaches.
nccih.nih.gov/health/tips/cancer. Updated September 24, 2015. Accessed
February 15, 2018.

Rosenthal DS, Webster A, Ladas E. Integrative therapies in patients with
hematologic diseases. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 04-16-19:
Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer Alternative Therapies

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

