Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007430.htm    
                                Description: Gestational diabetes is high blood sugar (glucose) that starts during pregnancy. Eating a balanced, healthy diet can help you manage gestational diabetes. The diet recommendations that follow are for women    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gestational diabetes diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007430.htm

# Gestational diabetes diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gestational diabetes is high blood sugar (glucose) that starts during
pregnancy. Eating a balanced, healthy diet can help you manage gestational
diabetes. The diet recommendations that follow are for women with gestational
diabetes who do NOT take insulin.

## Recommendations

For a balanced diet, you need to eat a variety of healthy foods. Reading food
labels can help you make healthy choices when you shop.

If you are a vegetarian or on a special diet, talk with your health care
provider to make sure you're getting a balanced diet.

In general, you should eat:

    * Plenty of whole fruits and vegetables
    * Moderate amounts of lean proteins and healthy fats
    * Moderate amounts of whole grains, such as bread, cereal, pasta, and rice, plus starchy vegetables, such as corn and peas
    * Fewer foods that have a lot of sugar, such as soft drinks, fruit juices, and pastries 

You should eat three small- to moderate-sized meals and one or more snacks
each day. Do not skip meals and snacks. Keep the amount and types of food
(carbohydrates, fats, and proteins) about the same from day to day. This can
help you keep your blood sugar stable.

CARBOHYDRATES

    * Less than half the calories you eat should come from carbohydrates.
    * Most carbohydrates are found in starchy or sugary foods. They include bread, rice, pasta, cereal, potatoes, peas, corn, fruit, fruit juice, milk, yogurt, cookies, candy, soda, and other sweets.
    * High-fiber, whole-grain carbohydrates are healthy choices.Â These types of carbohydrates are called complex carbohydrates.
    * Try to avoid eating simple carbohydrates, such as potatoes, french-fries, white rice, candy, soda, and other sweets. This is because they cause your blood sugar to rise quickly after you eat such foods.  

    * Vegetables are good for your health and your blood sugar. Enjoy lots of them.
    * Carbohydrates in food are measured in grams. You can learn to count the amount of carbohydrates in the foods that you eat. 

GRAINS, BEANS, AND STARCHY VEGETABLES

Eat 6 or more servings a day. One serving equals:

    * 1 slice bread
    * 1 ounce (28 grams) ready-to-eat cereal
    * 1/2 cup (105 grams) cooked rice or pasta
    * 1 English muffin 

Choose foods loaded with vitamins, minerals, fiber, and healthy carbohydrates.
They include:

    * Whole-grain breads and crackers
    * Whole grain cereals
    * Whole grains, such as barley or oats
    * Beans
    * Brown or wild rice
    * Whole-wheat pasta
    * Starchy vegetables, such as corn and peas 

Use whole-wheat or other whole-grain flours in cooking and baking. Eat more
low-fat breads, such as tortillas, English muffins, and pita bread.

VEGETABLES

Eat 3 to 5 servings a day. One serving equals:

    * 1 cup (340 grams) leafy, green vegetables
    * 1 cup (340 grams) cooked or chopped raw leafy vegetables
    * 3/4 cup (255 grams) vegetable juice
    * 1/2 cup (170 grams) of chopped vegetables, cooked or raw 

Healthy vegetable choices include:

    * Fresh or frozen vegetables without added sauces, fats, or salt
    * Dark green and deep yellow vegetables, such as spinach, broccoli, romaine lettuce, carrots, and peppers 

FRUITS

Eat 2 to 4 servings a day. One serving equals:

    * 1 medium whole fruit (such as a banana, apple, or orange)
    * 1/2 cup (170 grams) chopped, frozen, cooked, or canned fruit
    * 3/4 cup (180 milliliters) fruit juice 

Healthy fruit choices include:

    * Whole fruits rather than juices. They have more fiber.
    * Citrus fruits, such as oranges, grapefruits, and tangerines.
    * Fruit juices without added sugar.
    * Fresh fruits and juices. They are more nutritious than frozen or canned varieties. 

MILK AND DAIRY

Eat 4 servings of low-fat or nonfat dairy products a day. One serving equals:

    * 1 cup (240 milliliters) milk or yogurt
    * 1 1/2 oz (42 grams) natural cheese
    * 2 oz (56 grams) processed cheese 

Healthy dairy choices include:

    * Low-fat or nonfat milk or yogurt. Avoid yogurt with added sugar or artificial sweeteners.
    * Dairy products are a great source of protein, calcium, and phosphorus. 

PROTEIN (MEAT, FISH, DRY BEANS, EGGS, AND NUTS)

Eat 2 to 3 servings a day. One serving equals:

    * 2 to 3 oz (55 to 84 grams) cooked meat, poultry, or fish
    * 1/2 cup (170 grams) cooked beans
    * 1 egg
    * 2 tablespoons (30 grams) peanut butter 

Healthy protein choices include:

    * Fish and poultry. Remove the skin from chicken and turkey.
    * Lean cuts of beef, veal, pork or wild game.
    * Trim all visible fat from meat. Bake, roast, broil, grill, or boil instead of frying. Foods from this group are excellent sources of B vitamins, protein, iron, and zinc. 

SWEETS

    * Sweets are high in fat and sugar, so limit how often you eat them. Keep portion sizes small.
    * Even sugar-free sweets may not be the best choice. This is because they may not be free of carbohydrates or calories.
    * Ask for extra spoons or forks and split your dessert with others. 

FATS

In general, you should limit your intake of fatty foods.

    * Go easy on butter, margarine, salad dressing, cooking oil, and desserts.
    * Avoid fats high in saturated fat such as hamburger, cheese, bacon, and butter.
    * Don't cut fats and oils from your diet entirely. They provide energy for growth and are essential for baby's brain development.
    * Choose healthy oils, such as canola oil, olive oil, peanut oil, and safflower oil. Include nuts, avocados, and olives. 

OTHER LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Your provider may also suggest a safe exercise plan. Walking is usually the
easiest type of exercise, but swimming or other low-impact exercises can work
just as well. Exercise can help you keep your blood sugar in control.

YOUR HEALTH CARE TEAM IS THERE TO HELP YOU

In the beginning, meal planning may be overwhelming. But it will get easier as
you gain more knowledge about foods and their effects on your blood sugar. If
you're having problems with meal planning, talk with your health care team.
They are there to help you.

## Alternative Names

Gestational diabetes diet

## References

American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Committee on Practice Bulletins
--Obstetrics. Practice Bulletin No. 137: Gestational diabetes mellitus.
_Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;122(2 Pt 1):406-416. PMID: 23969827
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23969827.

American Diabetes Association. 14. Management of diabetes in pregnancy:
_standards of medical care in diabetes - 2019_. _Diabetes Care_. 2019;42(Suppl
1):S165-S172. PMID: 30559240 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559240.

Landon MB, Catalano PM, Gabbe SG. Diabetes mellitus complicating pregnancy.
In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 40.

Metzger BE. Diabetes mellitus and pregnancy. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 45.

## Review Date 3/28/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![Diabetic
Diet](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticDiet2_thumb.jpg)Diabetic Diet
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

