Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000896.htm    
                                Description: Gestational diabetes is high blood sugar (glucose) that starts or is first diagnosed during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gestational diabetes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000896.htm

# Gestational diabetes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gestational diabetes is high blood sugar (glucose) that starts or is first
diagnosed during pregnancy.

## Causes

Pregnancy hormones can block insulin from doing its job. When this happens,
glucose level may increase in a pregnant woman's blood.

You are at greater risk for gestational diabetes if you:

    * Are older than 25 when you are pregnant
    * Come from a higher risk ethnic group, such as Latino, African American, Native American, Asian, or Pacific Islander
    * Have a family history of diabetes
    * Gave birth to a baby that weighed more than 9 pounds (4 kg) or had a birth defect
    * Have high blood pressure
    * Have too much amniotic fluid
    * Have had an unexplained miscarriage or stillbirth 
    * Were overweight before your pregnancy
    * Gain too much weight during your pregnancy
    * Have polycystic ovary syndrome

## Symptoms

Most of the time, there are no symptoms. The diagnosis is made during a
routine prenatal screening.

Mild symptoms, such as increased thirst or shakiness, may be present. These
symptoms are usually not life threatening to the pregnant woman.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Blurred vision
    * Fatigue
    * Frequent infections, including those of the bladder, vagina, and skin
    * Increased thirst
    * Increased urination

## Exams and Tests

Gestational diabetes most often starts halfway through the pregnancy. All
pregnant women should receive an oral glucose tolerance testÂ (glucose
challenge test) between the 24th and 28th week of pregnancy to look for the
condition. Women who have risk factors for gestational diabetes may have this
test earlier in the pregnancy.

Once you are diagnosed with gestational diabetes, you can see how well you are
doing by testing your glucose level at home. The most common way involves
pricking your finger and putting a drop of your blood on a machine that will
give you a glucose reading.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to keep blood sugar (glucose) level within normal
limits during the pregnancy, and to make sure that the growing baby is
healthy.

WATCHING YOUR BABY

Your health care provider should closely check both you and your baby
throughout the pregnancy. Fetal monitoring will check the size and health of
the fetus.

A nonstress test is a very simple, painless test for you and your baby.

    * A machine that hears and displays your baby's heartbeat (electronic fetal monitor) is placed on your abdomen.
    * Your provider can compare the pattern of your baby's heartbeat to movements and find out whether the baby is doing well.

DIET AND EXERCISE

In many cases, eating healthy foods, staying active, and managing your weight
are all that are needed to treat gestational diabetes.

The best way to improve your diet is by eating a variety of healthy foods. You
should learn how to read food labels and check them when making food
decisions. Talk to your provider if you are a vegetarian or on another special
diet.

In general, when you have gestational diabetes your diet should:

    * Be moderate in fat and protein
    * Provide carbohydrates through foods that include fruits, vegetables, and complex carbohydrates (such as bread, cereal, pasta, and rice)
    * Be low in foods that contain a lot of sugar, such as soft drinks, fruit juices, and pastries 

Talk with your provider about the physical activities that are right for you.
Low-impact exercises, such as swimming, brisk walking, or using an elliptical
machine are safe ways to control your blood sugar and weight. Â

If managing your dietÂ and exercising don'tÂ control your blood sugar, you may
be prescribed diabetes medicine or insulin therapy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There are many risks of having diabetes in pregnancy when blood sugar is not
well controlled. With good control, most pregnancies have good outcomes.

Pregnant women with gestational diabetes tend to have larger babies at birth.
This can increase the chance of problems at the time of delivery, including:

    * Birth injury (trauma) because of the baby's large size
    * Delivery by C-section

Your baby is more likely to have periods of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
during the first few days of life, and may need to be monitored in a neonatal
intensive care unit (NICU) for a few days.

Mothers with gestational diabetes have an increased risk for high blood
pressure during pregnancy.

After delivery:

    * Your high blood sugar (glucose) level often goes back to normal.
    * You should be closely followed for signs of diabetes over the next 5 to 10 years after delivery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are pregnant and you have symptoms of diabetes.

## Prevention

Getting prenatal care early and having regular checkups helps improve your
health and the health of your baby. Having prenatal screening at 24 to 28
weeks of pregnancy will help detect gestational diabetes early.

If you are overweight, getting your weight within the normal body mass index
(BMI) range will decrease your risk of gestational diabetes.

## Alternative Names

Glucose intolerance during pregnancy

## Images

    * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17194t.jpg)Pancreas
    * ![Gestational Diabetes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19724t.jpg)Gestational diabetes

## References

American Diabetes Association. 13. Management of diabetes in pregnancy.
Standards of medical care in diabetes - 2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S137-S143. PMID 29222384 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222384.

Landon MB, Catalano PM, Gabbe SG. Diabetes mellitus complicating pregnancy.
In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 40.

Metzger BE. Diabetes mellitus and pregnancy. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 45.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for gestational
diabetes mellitus: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_Ann Intern Med_. 2014;160(6):414-420. PMID: 24424622Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24424622.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

