Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001597.htm    
                                Description: A fetus (baby) of a mother with diabetes may be exposed to high blood sugar (glucose) levels throughout the pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Infant of diabetic mother

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001597.htm

# Infant of diabetic mother

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A fetus (baby) of a mother with diabetes may be exposed to high blood sugar
(glucose) levels throughout the pregnancy.

## Causes

There are two forms of diabetes during pregnancy:

    * Gestational diabetes -- high blood sugar (diabetes) that starts or is first detected during pregnancy
    * Pre-existing or pre-gestational diabetes -- already having diabetes before becoming pregnant

If diabetes is not well controlled during pregnancy, the baby is exposed to
high blood sugar levels. This can affect the baby and mother during pregnancy,
at the time of birth, and after birth.

Infants of diabetic mothers (IDM) are often larger than other babies. This
makes vaginal birth harder. This can increase the risk for nerve injuries and
other trauma during birth. Also, cesarean births are more likely.

The IDM is more likely to have periods of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
shortly after birth, and during first few days of life. This is because the
baby has been used to getting more sugar than needed from the mother. They
have a higher insulin level than needed after birth. Insulin lowers the blood
sugar. It can take days for babies' insulin levels to adjust after birth.Â

IDMs are more likely to have:

    * Breathing difficulty due to less mature lungs
    * High red blood cell count (polycythemia)
    * High bilirubin level (newborn jaundice)

Chances of miscarriage orÂ stillborn child are higher in women with poorly
controlled diabetes.

IDM has higher risk of birth defects if the mother has pre-existing diabetes
that is not well controlled from the very beginning.Â

## Symptoms

The infant is often larger than usual for babies born after the same length of
time in the mother's womb (large for gestational age). In some cases, the baby
may be smaller (small for gestational age).

Other symptoms may include:

    * Blue skin color, rapid heart rate, rapid breathing (signs of immature lungs or heart failure)
    * Poor sucking, lethargy, weak cry, seizures (signs of severe low blood sugar) 
    * Poor feeding
    * Puffy face
    * Tremors or shaking shortly after birthÂ 
    * Jaundice (yellow skin color)

## Exams and Tests

Before the baby is born:

    * UltrasoundÂ is performed on the mother in the last few months of pregnancy to monitor the size of the baby.
    * Lung maturity testing may be done on the amniotic fluid. This will detect if the baby is going to be delivered more than a week before the due date.

After the baby is born:

    * Tests may show that the infant has low blood sugar, low blood calcium, high red blood cell counts, and high bilirubin levels.
    * An echocardiogram may show an abnormally large heart, which can occur with heart failure.

## Treatment

All infants who are born to mothers with diabetes should be tested for low
blood sugar, even if they have no symptoms.

If an infant had one episode of low blood sugar, tests to check blood sugar
levels will be done over several days. Testing will be continued until the
infant's blood sugar remains stable with normal feedings.

Efforts are made to ensure the baby has enough glucose in the blood:

    * Feeding soon after birth may prevent low blood sugar in mild cases. Even if the plan is to breastfeed, the health care provider may suggest some formula during the first 8 to 24 hours.Â Some hospitals are now offering a dextrose (sugar) gel inside the baby's cheek instead of giving formula if there is not enough mother's milk.
    * Low blood sugar that does not go away is treated with fluid containing sugar (glucose) and water given through a vein.
    * In severe cases, if the baby needs, large amounts of sugar, fluid, and glucose must be given through an umbilical (belly button) vein for several days.

Rarely, the infant may need breathing support or medicines to treat other
effects of diabetes. High bilirubin levels are treated with light therapy
(phototherapy).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, an infant's symptoms go away within hours, days, or a few
weeks. However, an enlarged heart may take several months to get better.

Very rarely, blood sugar may be so low as to cause brain damage.

## Possible Complications

The risk of stillbirth is higher in women with diabetes that is not well
controlled. There is also an increased risk for a number of birth defects or
problems:

    * Congenital heart defects.
    * High bilirubin level (hyperbilirubinemia).
    * Immature lungs.
    * Neonatal polycythemia (more red blood cells than normal). This may cause a blockage in the blood vessels or hyperbilirubinemia.
    * Small left colon syndrome. This causes symptoms of intestinal blockage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you are pregnant and getting regular prenatal care, routine testing will
show if you develop gestational diabetes.

If you are pregnant and have diabetes that is not under control, call your
provider right away.

If you are pregnant and are not receiving prenatal care, call a provider for
an appointment.

## Prevention

Women with diabetes need special care during pregnancy to prevent problems.
Controlling blood sugar can prevent many problems.

Carefully monitoring the infant in the first hours and days after birth may
prevent health problems due to low blood sugar.

## Alternative Names

IDM; Gestational diabetes - IDM; Neonatal care - diabetic mother

## References

Devaskar SU, Garg M. Disorders of carbohydrate metabolism in the neonate. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
95.

Landon MB, Catalano PM, Gabbe SG. Diabetes mellitus complicating pregnancy.
In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 40.

Moore TR, Hauguel-De Mouzon S, Catalano P. Diabetes in pregnancy. In: Creasy
RK, Resnik R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 59.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

