Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000321.htm    
                                Description: Many foods contain carbohydrates (carbs), including:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Counting carbohydrates

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000321.htm

# Counting carbohydrates

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many foods contain carbohydrates (carbs), including:

    * Fruit and fruit juice
    * Cereal, bread, pasta, and rice
    * Milk and milk products, soy milk
    * Beans, legumes, and lentils
    * Starchy vegetables like potatoes and corn
    * Sweets like cookies, candy, cake, jam and jelly, honey, and other foods that contain added sugar
    * Snack foods like chips and crackers 

Your body quickly turns carbohydrates into a sugar called glucose. This raises
your blood sugar, or blood glucose level.

Most foods that contain carbohydrates are nutritious and are an important part
of a healthy diet. The goal is not to limit carbohydrates in the diet
completely, but to make sure that you are not eating too many. Eating a
regular amount of carbohydrates throughout the day can help keep your blood
sugar level steady.

People with diabetes can better control their blood sugar if they count how
many carbohydrates they eat. People with diabetes who take insulin can use
carb counting to help them determine the exact dose of insulin they need at
meals.

Your dietitian will teach you a technique called "carb counting."

## Types of Carbohydrates

Your body turns all carbohydrates into energy. There are 3 major types of
carbohydrates:

    * Sugars
    * Starches
    * Fiber 

Sugars are found naturally in some foods and added to others. Sugar occurs
naturally in these nutrient-rich foods:

    * Fruits
    * Milk and milk products 

Many packaged and refined foods contain added sugar:

    * Candy
    * Cookies, cakes, and pastries
    * Regular (non-diet) carbonated beverages, such as soda
    * Heavy syrups, such as those added to canned fruit 

Starches are found naturally in foods. Your body breaks them down into sugar
after you eat them. The following foods have a lot of starch. Many also have
fiber. Fiber is the part of food that is not broken down by the body. It slows
digestion and helps you feel fuller. This includes:

    * Bread
    * Cereal
    * Legumes, such as beans and chickpeas
    * Pasta
    * Rice
    * Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes 

## Counting Your Carbs

Some foods, such as jelly beans, contain only carbohydrates. Other foods, such
as animal proteins (all kinds of meat, fish, and eggs), have no carbohydrates.

Most foods, even vegetables, have some carbohydrates. But most green, non-
starchy vegetables are very low in carbohydrates.

Most adults with diabetes should eat no more than 200 carbohydrate grams per
day. The daily recommended amount for adults is 135 grams per day, but each
person should have their own carbohydrate goal. Pregnant women need at least
175 grams of carbohydrates each day.

Packaged foods have labels that tell you how many carbohydrates a food has.
They are measured in grams. You can use food labels to count the carbohydrates
that you eat. When you are carb counting, a serving equals an amount of food
that contains 15 grams of carbohydrate. The serving size listed on a package
is not always the same as 1 serving in carbohydrate counting. For example, if
a single-serving package of food contains 30 grams of carbohydrate, the
package actually contains 2 servings when you are carb counting.

The food label will say what 1 serving size is and how many servings are in
the package. If a bag of chips says that it contains 2 servings and you eat
the entire bag, then you will need to multiply the label information by 2. For
example, let's say the label on a bag of chips states that it contains 2
servings, and 1 serving of chips provides 11 grams of carbohydrate. If you eat
the entire bag of chips, you have eaten 22 grams of carbohydrates.

Sometimes the label will list sugar, starch, and fiber separately. The
carbohydrate count for a food is the total of these. Use only this total
number to count your carbs.

When you count carbs in foods that you cook, you will have to measure the
portion of food after cooking it. For example, cooked long grain rice has 15
grams of carbohydrate per 1/3 cup. If you eat a cup of cooked long grain rice,
you will be eating 45 grams of carbohydrates.

Here are some examples of foods and servings sizes that have approximately 15
grams of carbohydrate:

    * Half cup (107 grams) of canned fruit (without the juice or syrup)
    * One cup (109 grams) of melon or berries
    * Two tablespoons (11 grams) of dried fruit
    * Half cup (121 grams) of cooked oatmeal
    * One-third cup of cooked pasta (44 grams) (can vary with the shape)
    * One-third cup (67 grams) of cooked long grain rice
    * One-fourth cup (51grams) of cooked short grain rice
    * Half cup (88 grams) cooked beans, peas, or corn
    * One slice of bread
    * Three cups (33 grams) popcorn (popped)
    * One cup (240 milliliters) milk or soy milk
    * Three ounces (84 grams) of baked potato

 **Adding up Your Carbohydrates**

The total amount of carbohydrates you eat in a day is the sum of the
carbohydrate counts of everything you eat.

When you are learning how to count carbs, use a log book or sheet of paper to
help you track them. As time passes, it will get easier to estimate your
carbohydrates.

Plan to see a dietitian every 6 months. This will help you refresh your
knowledge of carb counting. A dietitian can help you determine the right
amount of carbohydrate servings to eat each day, based on your personal
caloric needs and other factors. The dietitian can also recommend how to
spread out the carbohydrates you eat in your meals and snacks.

## Alternative Names

Carb counting; Carbohydrate-controlled diet; Diabetic diet; Diabetes-counting
carbohydrates

## Images

    * ![Complex carbohydrates](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19529t.jpg)Complex carbohydrates

## References

American Diabetes Association website. Get smart on carb counting.
www.diabetes.org/nutrition/understanding-carbs/carb-counting. Accessed August
13, 2019.

Dungan KM. Management of type 2 diabetes. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

Evert AB, Boucher JL, Cypress M, et al. Nutrition therapy recommendations for
the management of adults with diabetes. _Diabetes Care_. 2014;37 Suppl
1:S120-S143. PMID: 24357208 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24357208.

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 08-13-19:
Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Carbohydrates
    * Diabetes in Children and Teens
    * Diabetic Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

