Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003591.htm    
                                Description: This test looks for a protein called albumin in a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Microalbuminuria test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003591.htm

# Microalbuminuria test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test looks for a protein called albumin in a urine sample.

Albumin can also be measured using a blood test or another urine test, called
the protein urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

You will usually be asked to give a small urine sample while at your doctor's
office.

In rare cases, you will have to collect all of your urine at home for 24
hours. To do this, you will get a special container from your doctor and
specific instructions to follow.

To make the test more accurate, urine creatinine level may also be measured.
Creatinine is a chemical waste product of creatine. Creatine is a chemical
made by the body that is used to supply energy to muscles.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## Why the Test is Performed

People with diabetes have anÂ increased risk of kidney damage. The "filters"
in the kidneys, called nephrons, slowly thicken and become scarred over time.
The nephrons begin to leak protein into the urine. This kidney damage can also
happen years before any diabetes symptoms begin. In the early stages of kidney
problems, blood tests that measure kidney function are usually normal.

If you have diabetes, you should have this test each year. The test checks for
signs of early kidney problems.

If this test shows that you are starting to have a kidney problem, you can get
treatment before the problem gets worse. People with severe kidney damage may
need dialysis. They may eventually need a new kidney (kidney transplant).

## Normal Results

Normally, albumin stays in the body. There is little or no albumin in the
urine sample. Normal albumin levels in the urine are less than 30 mg/24 hours.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the test finds a high level of albumin in your urine, your doctor may have
you repeat the test.

Abnormal results may mean your kidneys are starting to get damaged. But the
damage may not yet be bad.

Abnormal results may also be reported as:

    * Range of 20 to 200 mcg/min
    * Range of 30 to 300 mg/24 hours 

You will need more tests to confirm a problem and show how severe the kidney
damage may be.

The most common cause of a high level of albumin in the urine is diabetes.
Controlling your blood sugar level may lower the albumin level in your urine.

A high albumin level may also occur with:

    * Some immune and inflammatory disorders affecting the kidney
    * Some genetic disorders
    * Rare cancers
    * High blood pressure
    * Inflammation in the whole body (systemic)
    * Narrowed artery of the kidney
    * Fever or exercise 

Healthy people may have a higher level of protein in the urine after exercise.
People who are dehydrated may also have a higher level.

## Risks

There are no risks with providing a urine sample.

## Alternative Names

Diabetes - microalbuminuria; Diabetic nephropathy - microalbuminuria; Kidney
disease - microalbuminuria; Proteinuria - microalbuminuria

## Patient Instructions

    * Diabetes tests and checkups

## References

American Diabetes Association. 11. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes - 2019. _Diabetes Care_. 2019;42(Suppl
1):S124-S138. PMID: 30559237 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559237.

Brownlee M, Aiello LP, Cooper ME, Vinik AI, Plutzky J, Boulton AJM.
Complications of diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 07/10/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
in Children and Teens _Read more_

![Diabetic Kidney
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticKidneyProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Kidney Problems _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

