Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000217.htm    
                                Description: Type 2 diabetes is a lifelong disease that causes a high level of sugar (glucose) in your blood. It can damage your organs. It can also lead to a heart attack or stroke and cause many other health problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000217.htm

# Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Type 2 diabetes is a lifelong disease that causes a high level of sugar
(glucose) in your blood. It can damage your organs. It can also lead to a
heart attack or stroke and cause many other health problems. You can do many
things to control your symptoms, prevent damage due to diabetes, and make your
life better.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you
take care of your diabetes.

## Questions

Ask your provider to check the nerves, skin, and pulses in your feet. Also ask
these questions:

    * How often should I check my feet? What should I do when I check them? What problems should I call my provider about?
    * Who should trim my toenails? Is it OK if I trim them?
    * How should I take care of my feet every day? What type of shoes and socks should I wear?
    * Should I see a foot doctor (podiatrist)?

Ask your provider about getting exercise:

    * Before I start, do I need to have my heart checked? My eyes? My feet?
    * What type of exercise program should I do? What type of activities should I avoid?
    * When should I check my blood sugar when I exercise? What should I bring with me when I exercise? Should I eat before or during exercise? Do I need to adjust my medicines when I exercise?

When should I next have an eye doctor check my eyes? What eye problems should
I call my doctor about?

Ask your provider about meeting with a dietitian. Questions for the dietitian
may include:

    * What foods increase my blood sugar the most?
    * What foods can help me with my weight loss goals?

Ask your provider about your diabetes medicines:

    * When should I take them?
    * What should I do if I miss a dose?
    * Are there any side effects?

How often should I check my blood sugar level at home? Should I do it at
different times of the day? What is too low? What is too high? What should I
do if my blood sugar is too low or too high?

Should I get a medical alert bracelet or necklace? Should I have glucagon at
home?

Ask your provider about symptoms that you are having if they have not been
discussed. Tell your provider about blurred vision, skin changes, depression,
reactions at injection sites, sexual dysfunction, tooth pain, muscle pain, or
nausea.

Ask your provider about other tests you may need, such as cholesterol, A1C,
and a urine test to check for kidney problems.

Ask your provider about vaccinations you should have like the flu shot,
hepatitis B, or pneumonia vaccines.

How should I take care of my diabetes when I travel?

Ask your provider how you should take care of your diabetes when you are sick:

    * What should I eat or drink?
    * How should I take my diabetes medicines?
    * How often should I check my blood sugar?
    * When should I call the provider?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your provider about diabetes - type 2

## References

American Diabetes Association. 3. Comprehensive medical evaluation and
assessment of comorbidities: standards of medical care in diabetes-2018.
_Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S28-S37. PMID: 29222374
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222374.

Dungan KM. Management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Read More

    * Atherosclerosis
    * Blood sugar test
    * Diabetes and eye disease
    * Diabetes and kidney disease
    * Diabetes and nerve damage
    * Diabetic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes Type 2
    * Diabetes in Children and Teens

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

