Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000322.htm    
                                Description: When you have diabetes, you need to control your blood sugar. Insulin or diabetes medicines, as well as exercise in general, helps lower your blood sugar.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Snacking when you have diabetes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000322.htm

# Snacking when you have diabetes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have diabetes, you need to control your blood sugar. Insulin or
diabetes medicines, as well as exercise in general, helps lower your blood
sugar.

## Blood Sugar and Food

Food raises your blood sugar the most. Stress, certain medicines, and some
kinds of exercise can also raise your blood sugar.

The three major nutrients in food are carbohydrates, protein, and fat.

    * Your body quickly turns carbohydrates into a sugar called glucose. This raises your blood sugar level. Carbohydrates are found in cereal, bread, pasta, potato, and rice. Fruit and some vegetables like carrots also have carbohydrates.
    * Protein and fat can change your blood sugar too, but not as fast.

If you have diabetes, you may need to eat carbohydrate snacks during the day.
This will help balance your blood sugar. This is particularly important if you
have type 1 diabetes.

## Planning Ahead

Learning how to count the carbohydrates that you eat (carb counting) helps you
plan what to eat. It will also keep your blood sugar under control.

Your health care provider may tell you to eat a snack at certain times of the
day, most often at bedtime. This helps keep your blood sugar from getting too
low at night. Other times, you may have a snack before or during exercise for
the same reason. Ask your provider about the snacks you can and you can't
have.

Needing to snack to prevent low blood sugar has become much less common
because of new types of insulin that are better at matching the insulin your
body needs at specific times.

If you have type 2 diabetes and are taking insulin and often need to snack
during the day and are gaining weight, your doses of insulin may be too high
and you should talk to your provider about this.

You will also need to ask about what snacks to avoid.

## Snacks for a Purpose

Your provider can tell you if you should snack at certain times to keep from
having low blood sugar.

This will be based on your:

    * Diabetes treatment plan from your provider
    * Expected physical activity
    * Lifestyle
    * Low blood sugar pattern 

Most often, your snacks will be easy to digest foods that have 15 to 45 grams
of carbohydrates.

Snack foods that have 15 grams (g) of carbohydrates are:

    * Half cup (107 g) of canned fruit (without the juice or syrup)
    * Half banana
    * One medium apple
    * One cup (173 g) melon balls
    * Two small cookies
    * Ten potato chips (varies with size of chips)
    * Six jelly beans (varies with size of pieces) 

## Snacks for Enjoyment

Having diabetes does not mean that you must stop eating snacks. It does mean
that you should know what a snack does to your blood sugar. You also need to
know what healthy snacks are so you can choose a snack that will not raise
your blood sugar or make you gain weight. Ask your provider about what snacks
you can eat. Also ask if you need to change your treatment (such as taking
extra insulin shots) for snacks.

Snacks with no carbohydrates change your blood sugar the least. The healthiest
snacks usually DO NOT have many calories.

Read food labels for carbohydrates and calories. You can also use carbohydrate
counting apps or books. Over time, it will get easier for you to tell how many
carbohydrates are in foods or snacks.

Some low carbohydrate snacks, such as nuts and seeds, are high in calories.
Some low carbohydrate snacks are:

    * Broccoli
    * Cucumber
    * Cauliflower
    * Celery sticks
    * Peanuts (not honey-coated or glazed)
    * Sunflower seeds 

## Alternative Names

Healthy snacking - diabetes; Low blood sugar - snacking; Hypoglycemia -
snacking

## References

American Diabetes Association website. Get smart of carb counting.
www.diabetes.org/nutrition/understanding-carbs/carb-counting. Accessed August
13, 2019.

American Diabetes Association website. Healthy food choices made easy.
www.diabetes.org/nutrition/healthy-food-choices-made-easy. Accessed August 13,
2019.

Powers MA, Bardsley J, Cypress M, et al. Diabetes self-management education
and support in type 2 diabetes: a joint position statement of the American
Diabetes Association, the American Association of Diabetes Educators, and the
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. _Diabetes Care_. 2015;38(7):1372-1382.
PMID: 26048904 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26048904.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 08-13-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes in Children and Teens
    * Diabetic Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

