Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007429.htm    
                                Description: When you have type 2 diabetes, taking time to plan your meals goes a long way toward controlling your blood sugar and weight.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes type 2 - meal planning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007429.htm

# Diabetes type 2 - meal planning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have type 2 diabetes, taking time to plan your meals goes a long way
toward controlling your blood sugar and weight.

## Function

Your main focus is on keeping your blood sugar (glucose) level in your target
range. To help manage your blood sugar, follow a meal plan that has:

    * Food from all the food groups
    * Fewer calories
    * About the same amount of carbohydrates at each meal and snack
    * Healthy fats 

Along with healthy eating, you can help keep your blood sugar in target range
by maintaining a healthy weight. People with type 2 diabetes are often
overweight or obese. Losing even 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) can help you manage
your diabetes better. Eating healthy foods and staying active (for example, 60
total minutes of walking or other activity per day) can help you meet and
maintain your weight loss goal.

HOW CARBOHYDRATES AFFECT BLOOD SUGAR

Carbohydrates in food give your body energy. You need to eat carbohydrates to
maintain your energy. But carbohydrates also raise your blood sugar higher and
faster than other kinds of food.

The main kinds of carbohydrates are starches, sugars, and fiber. Learn which
foods have carbohydrates. This will help with meal planning so that you can
keep your blood sugar in your target range. Not all carbohydrates can be
broken down and absorbed by your body. Foods with more non-digestable
carbohydrates, or fiber, are less likely to increase your blood sugar out of
your goal range. These include foods such as beans and whole grains.

MEAL PLANNING FOR CHILDREN WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES

Meal plans should consider the amount of calories children need to grow. In
general, three small meals and three snacks a day can help meet calorie needs.
Many children with type 2 diabetes are overweight. The goal should be able to
reach a healthy weight by eating healthy foods and getting more activity (60
minutes each day).

Work with a registered dietitian to design a meal plan for your child. A
registered dietitian is an expert in food and nutrition.

The following tips can help your child stay on track:

    * No food is off-limits. Knowing how different foods affect your child's blood sugar helps you and your child keep blood sugar in target range.
    * Help your child learn how much food is a healthy amount. This is called portion control.
    * Have your family gradually switch from drinking soda and other sugary drinks, such as sports drinks and juices, to plain water or low-fat milk. 

PLANNING MEALS

Everyone has individual needs. Work with your doctor, registered dietitian, or
diabetes educator to develop a meal plan that works for you.

When shopping, read food labels to make better food choices.

A good way to make sure you get all the nutrients you need during meals is to
use the plate method. This is a visual food guide that helps you choose the
best types and right amounts of food to eat. It encourages larger portions of
non-starchy vegetables (half the plate) and moderate portions of protein (one
quarter of the plate) and starch (one quarter of the plate).

EAT A VARIETY OF FOODS

Eating a wide variety of foods helps you stay healthy. Try to include foods
from all the food groups at each meal.

VEGETABLES (2Â½ to 3 cups or 450 to 550 grams a day)

Choose fresh or frozen vegetables without added sauces, fats, or salt. Non-
starchy vegetables include dark green and deep yellow vegetables, such as
cucumber, spinach, broccoli, romaine lettuce, cabbage, chard, and bell
peppers. Starchy vegetables include corn, green peas, lima beans, carrots,
yams and taro. Note that potato should be considered a pure starch, like white
bread or white rice, instead of a vegetable.

FRUITS (1Â½ to 2 cups or 240 to 320 grams a day)

Choose fresh, frozen, canned (without added sugar or syrup), or unsweetened
dried fruits. Try apples, bananas, berries, cherries, fruit cocktail, grapes,
melon, oranges, peaches, pears, papaya, pineapple, and raisins. Drink juices
that are 100% fruit with no added sweeteners or syrups.

GRAINS (3 to 4 ounces or 85 to 115 grams a day)

There are 2 types of grains:

    * Whole grains are unprocessed and have the entire grain kernel. Examples are whole-wheat flour, oatmeal, whole cornmeal, amaranth, barley, brown and wild rice, buckwheat, and quinoa.
    * Refined grains have been processed (milled) to remove the bran and germ. Examples are white flour, de-germed cornmeal, white bread, and white rice. 

Grains have starch, a type of carbohydrate. Carbohydrates raise your blood
sugar level. For healthy eating, make sure half of the grains you eat each day
are whole grains. Whole grains have lots of fiber. Fiber in the diet keeps
your blood sugar level from rising too fast.

PROTEIN FOODS (5 to 6Â½ ounces or 140 to 184 grams a day)

Protein foods include meat, poultry, seafood, eggs, beans and peas, nuts,
seeds, and processed soy foods. Eat fish and poultry more often. Remove the
skin from chicken and turkey. Select lean cuts of beef, veal, pork, or wild
game. Trim all visible fat from meat. Bake, roast, broil, grill, or boil
instead of frying. When frying proteins, use healthy oils such as olive oil.

DAIRY (3 cups or 245 grams a day)

Choose low-fat dairy products. Be aware that milk, yogurt, and other dairy
foods have natural sugar, even when they do not contain added sugar. Take this
into account when planning meals to stay in your blood sugar target range.
Some non-fat dairy products have a lot of added sugar. Be sure to read the
label.

OILS/FATS (no more than 7 teaspoons or 35 milliliters a day)

Oils are not considered a food group. But they have nutrients that help your
body stay healthy. Oils are different from fats in that oils remain liquid at
room temperature. Fats remain solid at room temperature.

Limit your intake of fatty foods, especially those high in saturated fat, such
as hamburgers, deep-fried foods, bacon, and butter.

Instead, choose foods that are high in polyunsaturated or monounsaturated
fats. These include fish, nuts, and vegetable oils.

Oils can raise your blood sugar, but not as fast as starch. Oils are also high
in calories. Try to use no more than the recommended daily limit of 7
teaspoons (35 milliliters).

WHAT ABOUT ALCOHOL AND SWEETS?

If you choose to drink alcohol, limit the amount and have it with a meal.
Check with your health care provider about how alcohol will affect your blood
sugar and to determine a safe amount for you.

Sweets are high in fat and sugar. Keep portion sizes small.

Here are tips to help avoid eating too many sweets:

    * Ask for extra spoons and forks and split your dessert with others.
    * Eat sweets that are sugar-free.
    * Always ask for the smallest serving size or children's size. 

YOUR DIABETES CARE TEAM IS THERE TO HELP YOU

In the beginning, meal planning may be overwhelming. But it will become easier
as your knowledge grows about foods and their effects on your blood sugar. If
you're having problems with meal planning, talk with your diabetes care team.
They are there to help you.

## Alternative Names

Type 2 diabetes diet; Diet - diabetes - type 2

## Images

    * ![Simple carbohydrates](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19534t.jpg)Simple carbohydrates
    * ![Complex carbohydrates](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19529t.jpg)Complex carbohydrates
    * ![Saturated fats](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19513t.jpg)Saturated fats
    * ![Read food labels](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19347t.jpg)Read food labels
    * ![myPlate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1055t.jpg)myPlate

## References

American Diabetes Association. 4. Lifestyle management: standards of medical
care in diabetes - 2018. _Diabetes Care._ 2018;41(Suppl 1):S38-S50. PMID:
29222375 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222375.

American Diabetes Association website. Diabetes food hub.
www.diabetesfoodhub.org. Accessed August 13, 2019.

Dungan KM. Management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Robert Hurd, MD, Professor of Endocrinology and Health Care
Ethics, Xavier University, Cincinnati, OH. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update 08/13/2019.

![Diabetes Type
2](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesType2_thumb.jpg)Diabetes Type 2
_Read more_

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
in Children and Teens _Read more_

![Diabetic
Diet](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticDiet2_thumb.jpg)Diabetic Diet
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

