Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000305.htm    
                                Description: Type 1 diabetes is a lifelong (chronic) disease in which there is a high level of sugar (glucose) in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Type 1 diabetes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000305.htm

# Type 1 diabetes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Type 1 diabetes is a lifelong (chronic) disease in which there is a high level
of sugar (glucose) in the blood.

## Causes

Type 1 diabetes can occur at any age. It is most often diagnosed in children,
adolescents, or young adults.

Insulin is a hormone produced in the pancreas by special cells, called beta
cells. The pancreas is below and behind the stomach. Insulin is needed to move
blood sugar (glucose) into cells. Inside the cells, glucose is stored and
later used for energy. With type 1 diabetes, beta cells produce little or no
insulin.

Without enough insulin, glucose builds up in the bloodstream instead of going
into the cells. This buildup of glucose in the blood is called hyperglycemia.
The body is unable to use the glucose for energy. This leads to the symptoms
of type 1 diabetes.

The exact cause of type 1 diabetes is unknown. Most likely, it is an
autoimmune disorder. This is a condition that occurs when the immune system
mistakenly attacks and destroys healthy body tissue. With type 1 diabetes, an
infection or another trigger causes the body to mistakenly attack the cells in
the pancreas that make insulin. The tendency to develop autoimmune diseases,
including type 1 diabetes, can be inherited from your parents.

![Type I diabetes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19212.jpg)

## Symptoms

HIGH BLOOD SUGAR

The following symptoms may be the first signs of type 1 diabetes. Or, they may
occur when blood sugar is high.

    * Being very thirsty
    * Feeling hungry
    * Feeling tired all the time
    * Having blurry eyesight
    * Feeling numbness or tingling in your feet
    * Losing weight without trying
    * Urinating more often (including urinating at night or bedwetting in children who were dry overnight before) 

For other people, these serious warning symptoms may be the first signs of
type 1 diabetes. Or, they may happen when blood sugar is very high (diabetic
ketoacidosis):

    * Deep, rapid breathing
    * Dry skin and mouth
    * Flushed face
    * Fruity breath odor
    * Nausea and vomiting; inability to keep down fluids
    * Stomach pain 

LOW BLOOD SUGAR

Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) can develop quickly in people with diabetes who
are taking insulin. Symptoms usually appear when a person's blood sugar level
falls below 70 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or 3.9 mmol/L. Watch for:

    * Headache
    * Hunger
    * Nervousness, irritability
    * Rapid heartbeat (palpitations)
    * Shaking
    * Sweating
    * Weakness 

After many years, diabetes can lead to serious health problems, and as a
result, many other symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

Diabetes is diagnosed with the following blood tests:

    * Fasting blood glucose level --Â Diabetes is diagnosed if it is 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) or higher two different times.
    * Random (non-fasting) blood glucose level --Â You may have diabetes if it is 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) or higher, and you have symptoms such as increased thirst, urination, and fatigue. (This must be confirmed with a fasting test.)
    * Oral glucose tolerance testÂ -- Diabetes is diagnosed if the glucose level is 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) or higher 2 hours afterÂ you drinkÂ a special sugar drink.
    * Hemoglobin A1c (A1C) testÂ -- Diabetes is diagnosed if the result of the test is 6.5% or higher.

Ketone testing is also used sometimes. The ketone test is done using a urine
sample or blood sample. Ketone testing may be done to determine if someone
with type 1 diabetes has had ketoacidosis. Testing is usually done:

    * When the blood sugar is higher than 240 mg/dL (13.3 mmol/L)
    * During an illness such as pneumonia, heart attack, or stroke
    * When nausea and vomiting occur
    * During pregnancy

The following exams and tests will help you and your doctor monitor your
diabetes and prevent problems caused by diabetes:

    * Check the skin and bones on your feet and legs.
    * Check if your feet are getting numb (diabetic nerve disease).
    * Have your blood pressure checked at least once a year. The goal should be 140/90 mmHg or lower.
    * Have an A1C test done every 6 months if your diabetes is well controlled. Have the test done every 3 months if your diabetes is not well controlled.
    * Have your cholesterol and triglyceride levels checked once a year.
    * Get tests once a year to make sure your kidneys are working well. These tests include checking levels ofÂ microalbuminuria and serum creatinine.
    * Visit your eye doctor at least once a year, or more often if you have signs of diabetic eye disease.
    * See the dentist every 6 months for a thorough dental cleaning and exam. Make sure your dentist and hygienist know that you have diabetes.

## Treatment

Because type 1 diabetes can start quickly and the symptoms can be severe,
people who have just been diagnosed may need to stay in the hospital.

If you have just been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes, you may need to have a
checkup each week until you have good control over your blood sugar. Your
doctor will review the results of your home blood sugar monitoring and urine
testing. Your doctor will also look at your diary of meals, snacks, and
insulin injections. It may take a few weeks to match the insulin doses to your
meal and activity schedules.

As your diabetes becomes more stable, you will have fewer follow-up visits.
Visiting your doctor is very important so you can monitor any long-term
problems from diabetes.

Your doctor will likely ask you to meet with a dietitian, clinical pharmacist,
and diabetes nurse educator. These providers will also help you manage your
diabetes.

But, you are the most important person in managing your diabetes. You should
know the basic steps of diabetes management, including:

    * How to recognize and treat low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
    * How to recognize and treat high blood sugar (hyperglycemia)
    * How to plan meals, including carbohydrate (carb) counting
    * How to give insulin
    * How to check blood glucose and urine ketones
    * How to adjust insulin and food when you exercise
    * How to handle sick days
    * Where to buy diabetes supplies and how to store them 

INSULIN

Insulin lowers blood sugar by allowing it to leave the bloodstream and enter
cells. Everyone with type 1 diabetes must take insulin every day.

Most commonly, insulin is injected under the skin using a syringe, insulin
pen, or insulin pump. Another form of insulin is the inhaled type. Insulin
cannot be taken by mouth because the acid in the stomach destroys insulin.

![Insulin pump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18035.jpg)

Insulin types differ in how fast they start to work and how long they last.
Your doctor will choose the best type of insulin for you and will tell you at
what time of day to use it. Some types of insulin may be mixed together in an
injection to get the best blood glucose control. Other types of insulin should
never be mixed.

Most people with type 1 diabetes need to take two kinds of insulin. Basal
insulin is long-lasting and controls how much sugar your own body makes when
you are not eating. Meal-time (nutritional) insulin is rapid acting and is
taken with every meal. It lasts only long enough to help move the sugar
absorbed from a meal into muscle and fat cells for storage.

Your doctor or diabetes educator will teach you how to give insulin
injections. At first, a child's injections may be given by a parent or another
adult. By age 14, most children can give themselves their own injections.

Inhaled insulin comes as a powder that is breathed in (inhaled). It is rapid
acting and used just before each meal. Your doctor can tell you if this type
of insulin is right for you.

People with diabetes need to know how to adjust the amount of insulin they are
taking:

    * When they exercise
    * When they are sick
    * When they will be eating more or less food and calories
    * When they are traveling 

HEALTHY EATING AND EXERCISE

By testing your blood sugar level, you can learn which foods and activities
raise or lower your blood sugar level the most. This helps you adjust your
insulin doses to specific meals or activities to prevent blood sugar from
becoming too high or too low.

The American Diabetes Association and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
have information for planning healthy, balanced meals. It also helps to talk
to a registered dietitian or nutrition counselor.

Regular exercise helps control the amount of sugar in the blood. It also helps
burn extra calories and fat to reach and maintain a healthy weight.

Talk to your doctor before starting any exercise program. People with type 1
diabetes must take special steps before, during, and after physical activity
or exercise.

MANAGING YOUR BLOOD SUGAR

Checking your blood sugar level yourself and writing down the results tells
you how well you are managing your diabetes. Talk to your doctor and diabetes
educator about how often to check.

To check your blood sugar level, you use a device called a glucose meter.
Usually, you prick your finger with a small needle, called a lancet, to get a
tiny drop of blood. You place the blood on a test strip and put the strip into
the meter. The meter gives you a reading that tells you the level of your
blood sugar.

Continuous glucose monitors measure your blood sugar level from fluid under
your skin. These monitors are used mostly by people who are on insulin pumps
to control their diabetes. Some monitors do not require a finger prick.

Keep a record of your blood sugar for yourself and your health care team.
These numbers will help if you have problems managing your diabetes. You and
your doctor should set a target goal for your blood sugar level at different
times during the day. You should also plan what to do when your blood sugar is
too low or high.

Talk to your doctor about your target for the A1C test. This lab test shows
your average blood sugar level over the past 3 months. It shows how well you
are controlling your diabetes. For most people with type 1 diabetes, the A1C
target should be 7% or lower.

Low blood sugar is called hypoglycemia. A blood sugar level below 70 mg/dL
(3.9 mmol/L) is too low and can harm you. A blood sugar level below 54 mg/dL
(3.0 mmol/L) is cause for immediate action. Keeping good control of your blood
sugar can help prevent low blood sugar. Talk to your doctor if you're not sure
about the causes and symptoms of low blood sugar.

FOOT CARE

People with diabetes are more likely than those without diabetes to have foot
problems. Diabetes damages the nerves. This can make your feet less able to
feel pressure, pain, heat, or cold. You may not notice a foot injury until you
have severe damage to the skin and tissue below, or you get a severe
infection.

Diabetes can also damage blood vessels. Small sores or breaks in the skin may
become deeper skin sores (ulcers). The affected limb may need to be amputated
if these skin ulcers do not heal, or become larger, deeper, or infected.

To prevent problems with your feet:

    * Stop smoking, if you smoke.
    * Improve control of your blood sugar.
    * Get a foot exam at least twice a year from your doctor, and learn whether you have nerve damage.
    * Ask your doctor to check your feet for problems such as a bunion or hammertoe. These need to be treated to prevent skin breakdown and ulcers.
    * Check and care for your feet every day. This is very important when you already have nerve or blood vessel damage or foot problems.
    * Treat minor infections, such as athlete's foot, right away.
    * Good nail care is important. If your nails are very thick and hard, you should have your nails trimmed by a podiatrist or other provider who knows you have diabetes.
    * Use moisturizing lotion on dry skin.
    * Make sure you wear the right kind of shoes. Ask your doctor what kind is right for you. 

PREVENTING COMPLICATIONS

Your doctor may prescribe medicines or other treatments to reduce your chances
of developing common complications of diabetes, including:

    * Eye disease
    * Kidney disease
    * Peripheral nerve damage
    * Heart disease and stroke

With type 1 diabetes, you are also at risk of developing conditions such as
hearing loss, gum disease, bone disease, or yeast infections (in women).
Keeping your blood sugar under good control can help prevent these conditions.

Talk with your health care team about other things you can do to lower your
chances of developing diabetes complications.

EMOTIONAL HEALTH

Living with diabetes can be stressful. You may feel overwhelmed by everything
you need to do to manage your diabetes. But taking care of your emotional
health is just as important as your physical health.

Ways to relieve stress include:

    * Listening to relaxing music
    * Meditating to take your mind off your worries
    * Deep breathing to help relieve physical tension
    * Doing yoga, taichi, or progressive relaxation 

Feeling sad or down (depressed) or anxious sometimes is normal. But if you
have these feelings often and they're getting in the way of managing your
diabetes, talk with your health care team. They can find ways to help you feel
better.

## Support Groups

There are many diabetes resources that can help you understand more about type
1 diabetes. You can also learn ways to manage your condition so that you can
live well with diabetes.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Diabetes is a lifelong disease and there is no cure.

Tight control of blood glucose can prevent or delay diabetes complications.
But these problems can occur, even in people with good diabetes control.

## Possible Complications

After many years, diabetes can lead to serious health problems:

    * You could have eye problems, including trouble seeing (especially at night) and sensitivity to light. You could become blind.
    * Your feet and skin could develop sores and infections. If you have these sores for too long, your foot or leg may need to be amputated. Infection can also cause pain, swelling, and itching.
    * Diabetes may make it harder to control your blood pressure and cholesterol. This can lead to heart attack, stroke, and other problems. It can become harder for blood to flow to the legs and feet.
    * Diabetes can weaken your immune system and make it more likely for you to come down with infections.
    * Nerves in the body can become damaged, causing pain, itching, tingling, and numbness.
    * Because of nerve damage, you could have problems digesting the food you eat. You could feel weakness or have trouble going to the bathroom. Nerve damage can also make it harder for men to have an erection.
    * High blood sugar and other problems can lead to kidney damage. The kidneys may not work as well as they used to. They may even stop working, so that you would need dialysis or a kidney transplant.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if you have:

    * Chest pain or pressure, shortness of breath, or other signs of angina
    * Loss of consciousness
    * Seizures

Call your doctor or go to the emergency room if you have symptoms of diabetic
ketoacidosis.

Also call your doctor if you have:

    * Blood sugar levels that are higher than the goals you and your doctor have set
    * Numbness, tingling, or pain in your feet or legs
    * Problems with your eyesight
    * Sores or infections on your feet
    * Frequent feelings of depression or anxiety
    * Symptoms that your blood sugar is getting too low (weakness or fatigue, trembling, sweating, irritability, trouble thinking clearly, fast heartbeat, double or blurry vision, uneasy feeling)
    * Symptoms that your blood sugar is too high (thirst, blurry vision, dry skin, weakness or fatigue, need to urinate a lot)
    * Blood sugar readings that are below 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) 

You can treat early signs of hypoglycemia at home by drinking orange juice,
eating sugar or candy, or by taking glucose tablets. If signs of hypoglycemia
continue or your blood glucose level stays below 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L), go to
the emergency room.

## Prevention

Type 1 diabetes cannot be prevented. There is no screening test for type 1
diabetes in people who have no symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Insulin-dependent diabetes; Juvenile onset diabetes; Diabetes - type 1; High
blood sugar - type 1 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar

## Images

    * ![Insulin pump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18035t.jpg)Insulin pump
    * ![Type I diabetes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19212t.jpg)Type I diabetes
    * ![Insulin pump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18028t.jpg)Insulin pump
    * ![Manage your blood sugar](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22870t.jpg)Manage your blood sugar

## References

American Diabetes Association. 2. Classification and diagnosis of diabetes:
standards of medical care in diabetes - 2019. _Diabetes Care_. 2019;42(Suppl
1):S13-S28. PMID: 30559228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559228.

Atkinson MA. Type 1 diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Cagliero E. Diabetes and long-term complications. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes Type
1](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesType1_thumb.jpg)Diabetes Type 1
_Read more_

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
in Children and Teens _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

