Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000326.htm    
                                Description: People with diabetes can have nerve problems. This condition is called diabetic neuropathy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nerve damage from diabetes - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000326.htm

# Nerve damage from diabetes - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People with diabetes can have nerve problems. This condition is called
diabetic neuropathy.

Diabetic neuropathy can happen when you have high blood sugar levels over a
long time. This causes damage to the nerves that go to your:

    * Legs
    * Arms
    * Digestive tract
    * Heart
    * Bladder 

The nerve damage can cause many different problems in your body.

## Symptoms

Tingling or burning in the feet and legs may be an early sign of nerve damage.
These feelings often start in your toes and feet, but can also start in the
fingers and hands. You may also have deep pain or aching or just a heavy
feeling. Some people may have very sweaty or very dry feet from nerve damage.

Nerve damage may cause you to lose feeling in your feet and legs. Because of
this, you may:

    * Not notice when you step on something sharp
    * Not know you have a blister or small wound on your toes
    * Not notice when you touch something too hot or too cold
    * Make it more likely to bump your toes or feet against objects
    * Can cause the joints in your feet to become damaged which can make it harder to walk
    * Can change the muscles in your feet which can cause increased pressure on your toes and balls of your feet
    * Can make it more likely for you to have infections of the skin on your feet and in your toenails 

People with diabetes may have problems digesting food. These problems can make
your diabetes harder to control. Symptoms of this problem are:

    * Feeling full after eating only a small amount of food
    * Heartburn and bloating
    * Nausea, constipation, or diarrhea
    * Swallowing problems
    * Throwing up undigested food several hours after a meal 

Heart-related problems may include:

    * Lightheadedness, or even fainting, when sitting or standing up
    * Rapid heart rate 

Neuropathy may "hide" angina. This is the warning chest pain for heart disease
and heart attack. People with diabetes should learn other warning signs of a
heart attack. They are:

    * Sudden fatigue
    * Sweating
    * Shortness of breath
    * Nausea and vomiting 

Other symptoms of nerve damage are:

    * Sexual problems. Men may have problems with erections. Women may have trouble with vaginal dryness or orgasm.
    * Not being able to tell when your blood sugar gets too low.
    * Bladder problems. You may leak urine. You may not be able to tell when your bladder is full. Some people are not able to empty their bladder.
    * Sweating too much. Particularly when the temperature is cool, when you are at rest, or at other unusual times. 

## Treating and Preventing Nerve Damage from Diabetes

Treating diabetic neuropathy can make some symptoms of nerve problems better.
The best way to keep the problem from getting worse is to have good control of
your blood sugar.

Your doctor can give you medicines to help with some of these symptoms.

    * Medicines may help reduce painful symptoms in the feet, legs, and arms. They usually DO NOT bring back loss of feeling. You may have to try different medicines to find one that reduces your pain. Some medicines will not be very effective if your blood sugars are still very high.
    * Your provider may give you medicines to help with problems digesting food or having a bowel movement.
    * Other medicines can help with erection problems. 

Learn how to take care of your feet. Ask your provider:

    * To check your feet. These exams can find small infections. They can also keep foot injuries from getting worse.
    * About ways to protect your feet if the skin is very dry.
    * To teach you how to check for foot problems at home and what you should do when you spot problems.
    * To recommend shoes and socks that are right for you. 

## Alternative Names

Diabetic neuropathy - self-care

## References

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222381.

Brownlee M, Aiello LP, Cooper ME, Vinik AI, Plutzky J, Boulton AJM.
Complications of diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetic Nerve Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

