Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000692.htm    
                                Description: This diabetic type of cranial mononeuropathy III is a complication of diabetes. ItÂ causes double vision and eyelid drooping.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cranial mononeuropathy III - diabetic type

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000692.htm

# Cranial mononeuropathy III - diabetic type

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This diabetic type of cranial mononeuropathy III is a complication of
diabetes. ItÂ causes double vision and eyelid drooping.

## Causes

MononeuropathyÂ means that only one nerve is damaged. This disorder affects
the third cranial nerve in the skull. This is one of the cranial nerves that
control eye movement.

This type of damage may occur along with diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
Cranial mononeuropathy III is the most common cranial nerve disorder in people
with diabetes. It is due to damage to the small blood vessels that feed the
nerve.

Cranial mononeuropathy III can also occur in people who don't have diabetes.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Double vision
    * Drooping of one eyelid (ptosis)
    * Pain around the eye and forehead

Neuropathy often develops within 7 days of onset of pain.

## Exams and Tests

An examination of the eyes will determine whether only the third nerve is
affected or if other nerves have also been damaged. Signs may include:

    * Eyes that are not aligned 
    * Pupil reaction that is almost always normal 

Your health care provider will do a complete examination to determine the
possible effect on other parts of the nervous system. Depending on the
suspected cause, you may need:

    * Blood tests
    * Tests to look at blood vessels in the brain (cerebral angiogram, CT angiogram, MR angiogram)
    * MRI or CT scan of the brain
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) 

You may need to be referred to a doctor who specializes in vision problems
related to the nerves in the eyeÂ (neuro-ophthalmologist).

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment to correct the nerve injury.

Treatments to help symptoms may include:

    * Close control of blood sugar level
    * Eye patch or glasses with prisms to reduce double vision 
    * Pain medicines 
    * Antiplatelet therapy
    * Surgery to correct eyelid drooping or eyes that are not aligned 

Some people may recover without treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prognosis is good. Many people get better over 3 to 6 months. However, some
people have permanent eye muscle weakness.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Permanent eyelid drooping
    * Permanent vision changes

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have double vision and it does not go away in a few
minutes, especially if you also have eyelid drooping.

## Prevention

Controlling your blood sugar level may reduce the risk of developing this
disorder.

## Alternative Names

Diabetic third nerve palsy; Pupil-sparing third cranial nerve palsy; Ocular
diabetic neuropathy

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Brownlee M, Aiello LP, Cooper ME, Vinik AI, Plutzky J, Boulton AJM.
Complications of diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Guluma K. Diplopia. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

Stettler BA. Brain and cranial nerve disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 95.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetic Nerve
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticNerveProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Nerve Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

