Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000693.htm    
                                Description: Nerve damage that occurs in people with diabetes is called diabetic neuropathy. This condition is a complication of diabetes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes and nerve damage

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000693.htm

# Diabetes and nerve damage

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nerve damage that occurs in people with diabetes is called diabetic
neuropathy. This condition is a complication of diabetes.

## Causes

In people with diabetes, the body's nerves can be damaged by decreased blood
flow and a high blood sugar level. This condition is more likely when the
blood sugar level is not well controlled over time.

About one half of people with diabetes develop nerve damage. Symptoms often do
not begin until many years after diabetes has been diagnosed. Some people who
have diabetes that develops slowly already have nerve damage when they are
first diagnosed.

People with diabetes are also at higher risk for other nerve problems not
caused by their diabetes. These other nerve problems won't have the same
symptoms and will progress in a different manner than nerve damage caused by
diabetes.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often develop slowly over many years. The types of symptoms you have
depend on the nerves that are affected.

Nerves in the feet and legs are most often affected. Symptoms often start in
the toes and feet, and include tingling or burning, or deep pain. Over time,
nerve damage can also occur in the fingers and hands. As the damage gets
worse, you will likely lose feeling in your toes, feet, and legs. Your skin
will also become numb. Because of this, you may:

    * Not notice when you step on something sharp
    * Not know that you have a blister or small cut
    * Not notice when your feet or hands touch something that is too hot or cold
    * Have feet that are very dry and cracked 

When the nerves that control digestion are affected, you may have trouble
digesting food. This can make your diabetes harder to control. Damage to
nerves that control digestion almost always occurs in people with severe nerve
damage in their feet and legs. Symptoms of digestion problems include:

    * Feeling full after eating only a small amount of food
    * Heartburn and bloating
    * Nausea, constipation, or diarrhea
    * Swallowing problems
    * Throwing up undigested food a few hours after a meal 

When nerves in your heart and blood vessels are damaged, you may:

    * Feel lightheaded when you stand up (orthostatic hypotension)
    * Have a fast heart rate
    * Not notice angina, the chest pain that warns of heart disease and heart attack 

Other symptoms of nerve damage are:

    * Sexual problems, which cause trouble getting an erection in men and vaginal dryness or orgasm problems in women.
    * Not being able to tell when your blood sugar gets too low.
    * Bladder problems, which cause urine leakage or not being able to empty the bladder.
    * Sweating too much, even when the temperature is cool, when you're at rest, or at other unusual times.
    * Feet that are very sweaty (early nerve damage). 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam. The exam may find that you
have the following:

    * No reflexes or weak reflexes in the ankle
    * Loss of feeling in the feet (this is checked with a brush-like instrument called a monofilament)
    * Changes in the skin, including dry skin, hair loss, and thick or discolored nails
    * Loss of the ability to sense movement of your joints (proprioception)
    * Drop in blood pressure when you stand up after sitting or lying down 

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Electromyogram (EMG), a recording of electrical activity in muscles
    * Nerve conduction velocity tests (NCV), a recording of the speed at which signals travel along nerves
    * Gastric emptying study to check how fast food leaves the stomach and enters the small intestine
    * Tilt table study to check if the nervous system is properly controlling blood pressure 

## Treatment

Follow your provider's advice on how to slow diabetic nerve damage.

Control your blood sugar (glucose) level by:

    * Eating healthy foods
    * Getting regular exercise
    * Checking your blood sugar as often as instructed and keeping a record of your numbers so that you know the types of foods and activities that affect your blood sugar level
    * Taking oral medicine or injections as instructed by your provider 

To treat the symptoms of nerve damage, your provider may prescribe medicines
to treat:

    * Pain in your feet, legs, or arms
    * Nausea, vomiting, or other digestion problems
    * Bladder problems
    * Erection problems or vaginal dryness 

If you're prescribed medicines for symptoms of nerve damage, be aware of the
following:

    * Your blood sugar must be controlled for the drug to be effective.
    * After you start the drug, tell your provider if the nerve pain doesn't improve.

When you have nerve damage inÂ your feet, the feeling in your feet can be
reduced. You can even have no feeling at all. As a result, your feet may not
heal well if they are injured. Caring for your feet can prevent minor problems
from becoming so serious that you end up in the hospital.

Caring for your feet includes:

    * Checking your feet every day 
    * Getting a foot examÂ each time you see your provider 
    * Wearing the right kind of socks and shoes (ask your provider about this) 

## Support Groups

Many resources can help you understand more about diabetes. You can also learn
ways to manage your diabetic nerve disease

    * American Diabetes Association -- www.diabetes.org
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases -- www.diabetes.niddk.nih.gov

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment relieves pain and controls some symptoms.

Other problems that may develop include:

    * Bladder or kidney infection
    * Diabetes foot ulcers
    * Nerve damage that hides the symptoms of the chest pain (angina) that warns of heart disease and a heart attack
    * Loss of a toe, foot, or leg through amputation, often because of a bone infection that does not heal 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop any symptoms of diabetic neuropathy.

## Alternative Names

Diabetic neuropathy; Diabetes - neuropathy; Diabetes - peripheral neuropathy

## Patient Instructions

    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Diabetes and nerve damage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19820t.jpg)Diabetes and nerve damage
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

American Diabetes Association. 11. Microvascular complications and foot care:
Standards of medical care in diabetes -2019. _Diabetes Care._ 2019;42(Suppl
1):S124-S138. PMID: 30559237 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559237.

Boulton AJM, Malik RA. Diabetes mellitus: neuropathy. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 53.

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Diabetic Nerve
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticNerveProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Nerve Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

