Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000297.htm    
                                Description: Gastroparesis is a condition that reduces the ability of the stomach to empty its contents. It does not involve a blockage (obstruction).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastroparesis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000297.htm

# Gastroparesis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastroparesis is a condition that reduces the ability of the stomach to empty
its contents. It does not involve a blockage (obstruction).

## Causes

The exact cause of gastroparesis is unknown. It may be caused by a disruption
of nerve signals to the stomach. The condition is a common complication of
diabetes. It can also follow some surgeries.

Risk factors for gastroparesis include:

    * Diabetes
    * Gastrectomy (surgery to remove part of the stomach)
    * Systemic sclerosis
    * Use of medicine that blocks certain nerve signals (anticholinergic medicine) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal distention
    * Hypoglycemia (in people with diabetes)
    * Nausea
    * Premature abdominal fullness after meals
    * Weight loss without trying
    * Vomiting
    * Abdominal pain 

## Exams and Tests

Tests you may need include:

    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
    * Gastric emptying study (using isotope labeling)
    * Upper GI series

## Treatment

People with diabetes should always control their blood sugar levels. Better
control of blood sugar level may improve symptoms of gastroparesis. Eating
small and more frequent meals and soft foods may also help relieve some
symptoms.

Medicines that may help include:

    * Cholinergic drugs, which act on acetylcholine nerve receptors
    * Erythromycin
    * Metoclopramide, a medicine that helps empty the stomach
    * Serotonin antagonist drugs, which act on serotonin receptors

Other treatments may include:

    * Botulinum toxin (Botox) injected into the outlet of the stomach (pylorus)
    * Surgical procedure that creates an opening between the stomach and small intestine to allow food to move through the digestive tract more easily (gastroenterostomy)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many treatments seem to provide only temporary benefit.

## Possible Complications

Ongoing nausea and vomiting may cause:

    * Dehydration
    * Electrolyte imbalances
    * Malnutrition 

People with diabetes may have serious complications from poor blood sugar
control.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Changes in your diet may help control symptoms. Call your health care provider
if symptoms continue or if you have new symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Gastroparesis diabeticorum; Delayed gastric emptying; Diabetes -
gastroparesis; Diabetic neuropathy - gastroparesis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Stomach](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19223t.jpg)Stomach

## References

Bircher G, Woodrow G. Gastroenterology and nutrition in chronic kidney
disease. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive
Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 86.

Koch KL. Gastric neuromuscular function and neuromuscular disorders. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 49.

## Review Date 10/24/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![Scleroderma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scleroderma_thumb.jpg)Scleroderma
_Read more_

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

