Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003600.htm    
                                Description: The potassium urine test measures the amount of potassium in a certain amount of urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Potassium urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003600.htm

# Potassium urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The potassium urine test measures the amount of potassium in a certain amount
of urine.

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested in the lab. If needed, the
health care provider may ask you to collect your urine at home over 24 hours.
Your provider will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly so
that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may ask you to temporarily stop taking any medicines that may
affect the test results. Tell your provider about all the medicines you take,
including:

    * Corticosteroids
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Potassium supplements
    * Water pills (diuretics) 

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

This test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of a condition that
affects body fluids, such as dehydration, vomiting, or diarrhea.

It may also be done to diagnose or confirm disorders of the kidneys or adrenal
glands.

## Normal Results

The usual range for a person on a regular diet is 25 to 125 mEq/L per day.
Lower or higher urinary level may occur depending on the amount of potassium
in your diet and the amount of potassium in your body.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal urine potassium level may be due to:

    * Diabetic acidosis and other forms of metabolic acidosis
    * Eating disorders (anorexia, bulimia)
    * Kidney problems, such as damage to kidney cells called tubule cells (acute tubular necrosis)
    * Low blood magnesium level (hypomagnesemia)
    * Muscle damage (rhabdomyolysis) 

Low urine potassium level may be due to:

    * Certain medicines, including beta blockers, lithium, trimethoprim, potassium-sparing diuretics, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Adrenal glands releasing too little hormone (hypoaldosteronism) 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine potassium

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Batlle D, Chen S, Haque SK. Physiologic principles in the clinical evaluation
of electrolyte, water, and acid-base disorders. In: Alpern RJ, Orson WM,
Caplan M, eds. _Seldin and Giebisch's The Kidney_. 5th ed. Waltham, MA:
Elsevier Academic Press; 2013:chap 74.

Kamel KS, Davids MR, Lin S-H, Halperin ML. Interpretation of electrolyte and
acid-base parameters in blood and urine. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

## Review Date 7/15/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

