Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000304.htm    
                                Description: Diabetic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome (HHS) is a complication of type 2 diabetes. It involves extremely high blood sugar (glucose) level without the presence of ketones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000304.htm

# Diabetic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome (HHS) is a complication of type 2
diabetes. It involves extremely high blood sugar (glucose) level without the
presence of ketones.

## Causes

HHS is a condition of:

    * Extremely high blood sugar (glucose) level 
    * Extreme lack of water (dehydration) 
    * Decreased alertness or consciousness (in many cases) 

Buildup of ketones in the body (ketoacidosis) may also occur.Â But it is
unusual and is often mild compared with diabetic ketoacidosis.

HHS is more often seen in people with type 2 diabetes who don't have their
diabetes under control. It may also occur in those who have not been diagnosed
with diabetes. The condition may be brought on by:

    * Infection
    * Other illness, such as heart attack or stroke
    * Medicines that decrease the effect of insulin in the body
    * Medicines or conditions that increase fluid loss
    * Running out of, or not taking prescribed diabetes medicines

Normally, the kidneys try to make up for a high glucose level in the blood by
allowing the extra glucose to leave the body in the urine. But this also
causes the body to lose water. If you do not drink enough water, or you drink
fluids that contain sugar and keep eating foods with carbohydrates, you become
very dehydrated. When this occurs, the kidneys are no longer able to get rid
of the extra glucose. As a result, the glucose level in your blood can become
very high â sometimes more than 10 times the normal amount.

The loss of water also makes the blood more concentrated than normal. This is
called hyperosmolarity. It is a condition in which the blood has a high
concentration of salt (sodium), glucose, and other substances. This draws the
water out of the body's other organs, including the brain.

Risk factors include:

    * A stressful event such as infection, heart attack, stroke, or recent surgery 
    * Heart failure
    * Impaired thirst
    * Limited access to water (especially in people with dementia or who are bedbound)
    * Older age 
    * Poor kidney function 
    * Poor management of diabetes, not following the treatment plan as directed 
    * Stopping insulin or other medicines that lower glucose level 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Increased thirst and urination (at the beginning of the syndrome)
    * Feeling weak
    * Nausea
    * Weight loss
    * Dry mouth, dry tongue
    * Fever
    * Seizures
    * Confusion
    * Coma

Symptoms may get worse over days or weeks.

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

    * Loss of feeling or function of muscles
    * Problems with movement
    * Speech impairment 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms and
medical history. The exam may show that you have:

    * Extreme dehydration
    * Fever higher than 100.4Â°F (38Â°C)
    * Increased heart rate
    * Low systolic blood pressure 

Test that may be done include:

    * Blood osmolarity (concentration)
    * BUN and creatinine levels
    * Blood sodium levelÂ (needs to be adjusted for the blood glucose level)
    * Ketone test
    * Blood glucose

Evaluation for possible causes may include:

    * Blood cultures
    * Chest x-ray
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Urinalysis
    * CT of the head

## Treatment

At the start of treatment, the goal is to correct the water loss. This will
improve the blood pressure, urine output, and circulation. Blood sugar will
also decrease.

Fluids and potassium will be given through a vein (intravenously). This must
be done carefully. High glucose level is treated with insulin given through a
vein.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who develop HHS are often already ill. If not treated right away,
seizures, coma, or death may result.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, HHS may lead to any of the following:

    * Shock
    * Blood clot formation
    * Brain swelling (cerebral edema)
    * Increased blood acid level (lactic acidosis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition is a medical emergency. Go to the emergency room or call the
local emergency number (such as 911) if you develop symptoms of HHS.

## Prevention

Controlling type 2 diabetes and recognizing the early signs of dehydration and
infection can help prevent HHS.

## Alternative Names

HHS; Hyperglycemic hyperosmolar coma; Nonketotic hyperglycemic hyperosmolar
coma (NKHHC); Hyperosmolar nonketotic coma (HONK); Hyperglycemic hyperosmolar
non-ketotic state; Diabetes - hyperosmolar

## Patient Instructions

    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Food and insulin release](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8812t.jpg)Food and insulin release

## References

Crandall J, Shamoon H. Diabetes mellitus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 229.

Graber MN. Diabetes and hyperglycemia. In: Adams JG, ed. _Emergency Medicine:
Clinical Essentials_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap
162.

Lebovitz HE. Hyperglycemia secondary to nondiabetic conditions and therapies.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![Hyperglycemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperglycemia_thumb.jpg)Hyperglycemia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

