Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000320.htm    
                                Description: Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is a life-threatening problem that affects people with diabetes. It occurs when the body starts breaking down fat at a rate that is much too fast. The liver processes the fat    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetic ketoacidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000320.htm

# Diabetic ketoacidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is a life-threatening problem that affects people
with diabetes. It occurs when the body starts breaking down fat at a rate that
is much too fast. The liver processes the fat into a fuel called ketones,
which causes the blood to become acidic.

## Causes

DKA happens when the signal from insulin in the body is so low that:

    1. Glucose (blood sugar) can't go into cells to be used as a fuel source.
    2. The liver makes a huge amount of blood sugar.
    3. Fat is broken down too rapidly for the body to process.

The fat is broken down by the liver into a fuel called ketones. Ketones are
normally produced when the body breaks down fat after a long time between
meals. When ketones are produced too quickly and build up in the blood and
urine, they can be toxic by making the blood acidic. This condition is known
as ketoacidosis.

DKA is sometimes the first sign of type 1 diabetes in people who have not yet
been diagnosed. It can also occur in someone who has already been diagnosed
with type 1 diabetes. Infection, injury, a serious illness, missing doses of
insulin shots, or surgery can lead to DKA in people with type 1 diabetes.

People with type 2 diabetes can also develop DKA, but it is less common and
less severe. It is usually triggered by prolonged uncontrolled blood sugar,
missing doses of medicines, or a severe illness or infection.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of DKA can include:

    * Decreased alertness
    * Deep, rapid breathing
    * Dry skin and mouth
    * Flushed face
    * Frequent urination or thirst that lasts for a day or more
    * Fruity-smelling breath
    * Headache
    * Muscle stiffness or aches
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Stomach pain 

## Exams and Tests

Ketone testing may be used in type 1 diabetes to screen for early
ketoacidosis. The ketone test is usually done using a urine sample or a blood
sample.

Ketone testing is usually done when DKA is suspected:

    * Most often, urine testing is done first.
    * If the urine is positive for ketones, most often beta-hydroxybutyrate is measured in the blood. This is the most common ketone measured. The other main ketone is acetoacetate.

Other tests for ketoacidosis include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Basic metabolic panel, (a group of blood tests that measure your sodium and potassium levels, kidney function, and other chemicals and functions, including the anion gap)
    * Blood glucose test
    * Blood pressure measurement
    * Osmolality blood test

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to correct the high blood sugar level with insulin.
Another goal is to replace fluids lost through urination, loss of appetite,
and vomiting if you have these symptoms.

If you have diabetes, it is likely your health care provider told you how to
spot the warning signs of DKA. If you think you have DKA, test for ketones
using urine strips. Some glucose meters can also measure blood ketones. If
ketones are present, call your provider right away. DO NOT delay. Follow any
instructions you are given.

It is likely that you will need to go to the hospital. There, you will receive
insulin, fluids, and other treatment for DKA. Then providers will also search
for and treat the cause of DKA, such as an infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people respond to treatment within 24 hours. Sometimes, it takes longer
to recover.

If DKA is not treated, it can lead to severe illness or death.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from DKA include any of the following:

    * Fluid buildup in the brain (cerebral edema)
    * Heart stops working (cardiac arrest)
    * Kidney failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

DKA is often a medical emergency. Call your provider if you notice symptoms of
DKA.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you or a family member with diabetes has any of the following:

    * Decreased consciousness
    * Fruity breath
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Trouble breathing

## Prevention

If you have diabetes, learn to recognize the signs and symptoms of DKA. Know
when to test for ketones, such as when you are sick.

If you use an insulin pump, check often to see that insulin is flowing through
the tubing. Make sure the tube is not blocked, kinked or disconnected from the
pump.

## Alternative Names

DKA; Ketoacidosis; Diabetes - ketoacidosis

## Images

    * ![Food and insulin release](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8812t.jpg)Food and insulin release
    * ![Oral glucose tolerance test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19810t.jpg)Oral glucose tolerance test
    * ![Insulin pump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18028t.jpg)Insulin pump

## References

American Diabetes Association. 2. Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes:
Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes - 2019. _Diabetes Care_. 2019;42(Suppl
1):S13-S28. PMID: 30559228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559228.

Maloney GE, Glauser JM. Diabetes mellitus and disorders of glucose
homeostasis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 118.

Pasquel FJ, Umpierrez GE. Hyperglycemic crises: diabetic ketoacidosis and
hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM,
et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

## Review Date 1/16/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![Diabetes Type
1](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesType1_thumb.jpg)Diabetes Type 1
_Read more_

![Hyperglycemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperglycemia_thumb.jpg)Hyperglycemia
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

