Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007742.htm    
                                Description: Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum is an uncommon skin condition related to diabetes. It results in reddish brown areas of the skin, most commonly on the lower legs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007742.htm

# Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum is an uncommon skin condition related to
diabetes. It results in reddish brown areas of the skin, most commonly on the
lower legs.

## Causes

The cause of necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum (NLD) is unknown. It is
thought to be linked to blood vessel inflammation related to autoimmune
factors. This damages proteins in the skin (collagen).

People with type 1 diabetes are more likely to get NLD than those with type 2
diabetes. Women are more affected than men. Smoking increases the risk for
NLD. Less than one half of one percent of those with diabetes suffer from this
problem.

## Symptoms

A skin lesion is an area of skin that is different from the skin around it.
With NLD, lesions start as firm, smooth, red bumps (papules) on the shins and
lower part of the legs. They usually appear in the same areas on opposite
sides of the body. They are painless in the early stage.

As the papules become bigger, they flatten down. They develop a shiny yellow
brown center with raised red to purplish edges. Veins are visible below the
yellow part of the lesions. The lesions are irregularly round or oval with
well-defined borders. They can spread and join together to give the appearance
of a patch.

Lesions can also occur on the forearms. Rarely, they may occur on the stomach,
face, scalp, palms, and soles of the feet.

Trauma may cause the lesions to develop ulcers. Nodules also may develop. The
area may become very itchy and painful.

NLD is different from ulcers that can occur on the feet or ankles in people
with diabetes.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can examine your skin to confirm the diagnosis.

If needed, your provider may do a punch biopsy to diagnose the disease. The
biopsy removes a sample of tissue from the edge of the lesion.

Your provider may do a glucose tolerance test to see if you have diabetes.

## Treatment

NLD can be difficult to treat. Control of blood glucose does not improve
symptoms.

Treatment may include:

    * Corticosteroid creams
    * Injected corticosteroids
    * Drugs that suppress the immune system
    * Anti-inflammatory drugs
    * Medicines that improve blood flow
    * Hyperbaric oxygen therapy may be used to increase the amount of oxygen in the blood to promote healing of ulcers
    * Phototherapy, a medical procedure in which the skin is carefully exposed to ultraviolet light
    * Laser therapy

In severe cases, the lesion may be removed by surgery, followed by moving
(grafting) skin from other parts of body to the operated area.

During treatment, monitor your glucose level as instructed. Avoid injury to
the area to prevent the lesions from turning into ulcers.

If you develop ulcers, follow steps on how to take care of the ulcers.

If you smoke, you will be advised to quit. Smoking can slow healing of the
lesions.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

NLD is a long-term disease. Lesions do not heal well and can recur. Ulcers are
difficult to treat. The appearance of the skin may take a long time to become
normal, even after treatment.

## Possible Complications

NLD can rarely result in skin cancer (squamous cell carcinoma).

Those with NLD are at increased risk for:

    * Diabetic retinopathy
    * Diabetic nephropathy

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have diabetes and notice non-healing lesions on your
body, especially on the lower part of legs.

## Alternative Names

Necrobiosis lipoidica; NLD; Diabetes - necrobiosis

## Images

    * ![Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum - abdomen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1977t.jpg)Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum - abdomen
    * ![Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum - leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1978t.jpg)Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum - leg

## References

Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL. Annular and targetoid lesions. In:
Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL, eds. _Urgent Care Dermatology: Symptom-Based
Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16, 269-288.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Errors in metabolism. In: James WD, Berger TG,
Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 26, 509-541.

Patterson JW. The granulomatous reaction pattern. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2016:chap 7, 189-218.

Rosenbach MA, Wanat KA, Reisenauer A, White KP, Korcheva V, White CR. Non-
infectious granulomas. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
Dermatology. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 93, 1644-1663.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

