Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000080.htm    
                                Description: People with diabetes have a higher chance of having heart attacks and strokes than those without diabetes. Smoking and having high blood pressure and high cholesterol increase these risks even more. Controlling    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000080.htm

# Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People with diabetes have a higher chance of having heart attacks and strokes
than those without diabetes. Smoking and having high blood pressure and high
cholesterol increase these risks even more. Controlling blood sugar, blood
pressure, and cholesterol levels are very important for preventing heart
attacks and strokes.

See your doctor who treats your diabetes as often as instructed. During these
visits, health care providers will check your cholesterol, blood sugar, and
blood pressure. You may also be instructed to take medicines.

## Lower Your Risks

You can lower your chance of having a heart attack or a stroke by being active
or exercising every day. For instance, a daily 30-minute walk each day can
help lower your risks.

Other things you can do to lower your risks are:

    * Follow your meal plan and watch how much you eat. This can help you lose weight if you are overweight or obese.
    * DO NOT smoke cigarettes. Talk with your doctor if you need help quitting.Â Also avoid exposure to cigarette smoke.
    * Take your medicines the way your providers recommend.
    * Don't miss doctor appointments. 

## Blood Sugar

Good control of blood sugar can lower your risk of heart disease and stroke.
Some diabetes medicines may have a better effect than others in reducing the
risk of heart attacks and strokes.

If you have had a heart attack or stroke, you are at high risk of having
another heart attack or stroke. Talk to your provider to see if you are on the
diabetes medicines that offer the best protection from heart attack and
stroke.

## Cholesterol

When you have extra cholesterol in your blood, it can build up inside the
walls of your heart's arteries (blood vessels). This buildup is called plaque.
It can narrow your arteries and reduces or stops blood flow. The plaque is
also unstable and can suddenly rupture and cause a blood clot. This is what
causes a heart attack, stroke, or other serious heart disease.

Most people with diabetes are prescribed a medicine to reduce their LDL
cholesterol levels. Medicines called statins are often used. You should learn
how to take your statin medicine and how to watch for side effects. Your
doctor will tell you if there is a target LDL level you need to aim for.

If you have other risk factors for heart disease or stroke, your doctor may
prescribe higher doses of a statin drug.

Your doctor should check your cholesterol levels at least once a year.

Eat foods that are low in fat and learn how to shop for and cook foods that
are healthy for your heart.

Get plenty of exercise, as well. Talk with your doctor about what kinds of
exercises are right for you.

## Blood Pressure

Have your blood pressure checked often. Your provider should check your blood
pressure at every visit. For most people with diabetes, a good blood pressure
goal is a systolic (top number) blood pressure between 130 to 140 mm Hg, and a
diastolic blood pressure (bottom number) less than 90 mm Hg. Ask your doctor
what is best for you.

Exercising, eating low-salt foods, and losing weight (if you are overweight or
obese) can lower your blood pressure. If your blood pressure is too high, your
doctor will prescribe medicines to lower it.

## Before You Exercise

Getting exercise will help you control your diabetes and make your heart
stronger. Always talk with your doctor before you start a new exercise program
or before you increase the amount of exercise you are doing. Some people with
diabetes may have heart problems and not know it because they do not have
symptoms.

## Taking Aspirin May Help

Taking aspirin every day may lower your chance of having a heart attack. The
recommended dose is 81 milligrams (mg) a day. DO NOT take aspirin without
talking to your doctor first. Ask your doctor about taking an aspirin every
day if:

    * You are a man over 50 or a woman over 60
    * You have had heart problems
    * People in your family have had heart problems
    * You have high blood pressure or high cholesterol levels
    * You are a smoker 

## Alternative Names

Diabetes complications - heart; Coronary artery disease - diabetes; CAD -
diabetes; Cerebrovascular disease - diabetes

## Images

    * ![Diabetes and blood pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22936t.jpg)Diabetes and blood pressure

## References

American Diabetes Association. 9. Cardiovascular disease and risk management:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S86-S104. PMID: 29222380 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222380.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

Marx N, Reith S. Managing chronic coronary artery disease in patients with
diabetes. In: De Lemos JA, Omland T, eds. _Chronic Coronary Artery Disease: A
Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
24.

## Read More

    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetes Complications
    * Diabetic Heart Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

