Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007746.htm    
                                Description: Eruptive xanthomatosis is a skin condition that causes small yellow-red bumps to appear on the body. It can occur in people who have very high blood fats (lipids). These patients also frequently have diabetes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eruptive xanthomatosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007746.htm

# Eruptive xanthomatosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eruptive xanthomatosis is a skin condition that causes small yellow-red bumps
to appear on the body. It can occur in people who have very high blood fats
(lipids). These patients also frequently have diabetes.

## Causes

Eruptive xanthomatosis is a rare skin condition caused by excessively high
lipids in the blood. It can occur in people with poorly-controlled diabetes
who have very high triglycerides and high cholesterol.

Cholesterol and triglycerides are types of fats that naturally occur in your
blood. High levels increase the risk for heart disease and other health
problems.

When diabetes is not well-controlled, there is less insulin in the body. Low
insulin levels makes it harder for the body to break down fats in the blood.
This increases the level of fats in the blood. The extra fat can collect under
the skin to form small bumps (lesions).

## Symptoms

The skin bumps may vary in color from yellow, orange-yellow, red-yellow, to
red. A small red halo may form around the bump. The bumps are:

    * Pea-sized
    * Waxy
    * Firm

While harmless, the bumps may be itchy and tender. They tend to appear on the:

    * Buttocks
    * Shoulders
    * Arms
    * Thighs
    * Legs
![Xanthoma, eruptive - close-
up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1554.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take your medical history and examine your
skin. You may have the following blood tests:

    * Blood test for cholesterol and triglycerides
    * Blood sugar test for diabetes
    * Pancreatic function test

A skin biopsy may be done to help diagnose the condition.

## Treatment

Treatment for eruptive xanthomatosis involves lowering:

    * Blood fats
    * Blood sugar

Your health care provider will ask you to make changes in your lifestyle and
diet. This can help lower high blood fats.

If you have diabetes, your provider will ask you to manage your blood sugar
[pid=60&gid=000086] through diet, exercise, and medicines.

If lifestyle changes do not work, your provider may ask you to take medicines
to help lower blood fat levels, such as:

    * Statins
    * Fibrates
    * Lipid-lowering antioxidants
    * Niacin
    * Bile acid resins

The skin bumps go away by themselves after few weeks. They clear once the
blood sugar and fat levels are under control.

## Possible Complications

If not treated, high triglyceride levels can lead to pancreatitis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you:

    * Have poor control of diabetes
    * Notice yellowish-red bumps on your skin

## Prevention

Control of blood fats and blood sugar can help prevent this condition. Follow
your provider's treatment recommendations.  

## Alternative Names

Eruptive xanthoma; Eruptive xanthomata; Xanthoma - eruptive; Diabetes -
xanthoma

## Images

    * ![Xanthoma, eruptive - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1554t.jpg)Xanthoma, eruptive - close-up

## References

Ahn CS, Yosipovitch G, Huang WW. Diabetes and the skin. In: Callen JP, Jorizzo
JL, Zone JJ, Piette WW, Rosenbach MA, Vleugels RA, eds. _Dermatological Signs
of Systemic Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Braunstein I. Cutaneous manifestations of lipid disorders. In: Callen JP,
Jorizzo JL, Zone JJ, Piette WW, Rosenbach MA, Vleugels RA, eds.
_Dermatological Signs of Systemic Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL. Yellow lesions. In: Fitzpatrick JE, High WA,
Kyle WL, eds. _Urgent Care Dermatology: Symptom-Based Diagnosis_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 33.

Patterson JW. Cutaneous infiltrates â nonlymphoid. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

White LE, Horenstein MG, Shea CR. Xanthomas. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR,
Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 256.

## Review Date 11/30/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

