Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007749.htm    
                                Description: Scleredema diabeticorum is a skin condition that occurs in some people with diabetes. It causes skin to become thick and hard on the back of the neck, shoulders, arms, and upper back.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scleredema diabeticorum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007749.htm

# Scleredema diabeticorum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scleredema diabeticorum is a skin condition that occurs in some people with
diabetes. It causes skin to become thick and hard on the back of the neck,
shoulders, arms, and upper back.

## Causes

Scleredema diabeticorum is thought to be a rare disorder, but some people
think that the diagnosis is often missed. The exact cause is unknown. The
condition tends to occur in men with poorly-controlled diabetes who:

    * Are obese
    * Use insulin
    * Have poor blood sugar control
    * Have other diabetes complications

## Symptoms

Skin changes happen slowly. Over time, you may notice:

    * Thick, hard skin that feels smooth. You cannot pinch the skin over the upper back or neck.
    * Reddish, painless lesions.
    * Lesions occur on the same areas on both sides of the body (symmetrical).

In severe cases, thickened skin can make it hard to move the upper body. It
also can make deep breathing difficult.

Some people find it hard to make a clenched fist because the skin on the back
of the hand is too tight.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will perform a physical exam. You will be asked about your
medical history and symptoms.

Tests may include:

    * Fasting blood sugar
    * Glucose tolerance test
    * A1C test
    * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for scleredema. Treatments may include:

    * Improved control of blood sugar (this may not improve the lesions once they have developed)
    * Phototherapy, a procedure in which the skin is carefully exposed to ultraviolet light
    * Glucocorticoid medications (topical or oral)
    * Electron beam therapy (a type of radiation therapy)  

    * Medicines that suppress the immune system
    * Physical therapy, if you find it hard to move your torso or breathe deeply  
  

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition cannot be cured. Treatment may improve movement and breathing.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you:

    * Have trouble controlling your blood sugar
    * Notice symptoms of scleredema

If you have the scleredema, call your provider if you:

    * Find it hard to move your arms, shoulders, and torso, or hands
    * Have trouble breathing deeply due to tight skin

## Prevention

Keeping blood sugar levels within range helps prevent diabetes complications.
However, scleredema can occur, even when blood sugar is well controlled.

Your provider may discuss adding medicines that allow insulin to work better
in your body so that your insulin doses can be reduced.  
  

## Alternative Names

Scleredema of Buschke; Scleredema adultorum; Diabetic thick skin; Scleredema;
Diabetes - scleredema; Diabetic - scleredema; Diabetic dermopathy

## References

Ahn CS, Yosipovitch G, Huang WW. Diabetes and the skin. In: Callen JP, Jorizzo
JL, Zone JJ, Piette WW, Rosenbach MA, Vleugels RA, eds. _Dermatological Signs
of Systemic Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Flischel AE, Helms SE, Brodell RT. Scleredema. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR,
Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 224.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Mucinoses. In: James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM,
eds.Â _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Patterson JW. Cutaneous mucinoses. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 13.

Rongioletti F. Mucinoses. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 46.

## Review Date 1/24/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Complications](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesComplications_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Complications _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

