Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007290.htm    
                                Description: Metabolic syndrome is a name for a group of risk factors that occur together and increase theÂ chance of havingÂ coronary artery disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metabolic syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007290.htm

# Metabolic syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Metabolic syndrome is a name for a group of risk factors that occur together
and increase theÂ chance of havingÂ coronary artery disease, stroke, and type
2 diabetes.

## Causes

Metabolic syndrome is very common in the United States. About one fourth of
Americans are affected. Doctors are not sure whether the syndrome is due to
one single cause. But many of the risks for the syndrome are related to
obesity.

The two most important risk factors for metabolic syndrome are:

    * Extra weight around the middle and upper parts of the body (central obesity). This body type may be described as "apple-shaped." 
    * Insulin resistance -- Insulin is a hormone produced in the pancreas. Insulin is needed to help control the amount of sugar in the blood. Insulin resistance means that some cells in the body use insulin less effectively than normal. As a result, blood sugar level rises, which causes insulin to rise. This may increase the amount of body fat. 

Other risk factors include:

    * Aging 
    * Genes that make you more likely to develop this condition 
    * Changes in male, female, and stress hormones 
    * Lack of exercise 

People who have metabolic syndrome often have one or more other factors that
may be linked with the condition, including:

    * Increased risk for blood clotting 
    * Increased levels of blood substances that are a sign of inflammation throughout the body 
    * Small amounts of a protein called albumin in the urine 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you. You'll be asked about your overall
health and any symptoms you're having. Blood tests may be ordered to check
your blood sugar, cholesterol, and triglyceride levels.

You'll likely be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome if you have three or more
of the following signs:

    * Blood pressure equal to or higher than 130/85 mm Hg or you're taking medicine for high blood pressure
    * Fasting blood sugar (glucose) between 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 7 mmol/L) or you've been diagnosed with and are taking medicines for diabetes
    * Large waist circumference (length around the waist): For men, 40 inches (100 centimeters) or more; for women, 35 inches (90 centimeters) or more [for Asians 35 inches (90 cm) for men and 30 inches (80 cm) for women]
    * Low HDL (good) cholesterol: For men, less than 40 mg/dL (1 mmol/L); for women, less than 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L) or you're taking medicine for reduced HDL
    * Fasting levels of triglycerides equal to or higher than 150 mg/dL (1.7 mmol/L) or you're taking medicine to lower triglycerides

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce your risk for heart disease, stroke, and
diabetes.

Your health care provider will recommend lifestyle changes or medicines:

    * Lose weight. The goal is to lose between 7% and 10% of your current weight. You will probably need to eat 500 to 1,000 fewer calories per day.
    * Get 150 minutes a week of moderate intensity exercise such as walking. Do exercises to strengthen your muscles 2 days a week.Â High intensity exercise for shorter periods is another option. Check with your health care provider to see if you are healthy enough to start a new exercise program.
    * Lower your cholesterol by eating healthier foods, losing weight, exercising, and taking cholesterol-lowering medicines, if needed.Â 
    * Lower your blood pressure by eating less salt, losing weight, exercising, and taking medicine, if needed. 

Your provider may recommend daily low-dose aspirin.

If you smoke, now is the time to quit. Ask your provider for help quitting.
There are medicines and programs that can help you quit.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with metabolic syndrome have an increased long-term riskÂ of developing
heart disease, type 2 diabetes, stroke, kidney disease, and poor blood supply
to the legs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have signs or symptoms of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Insulin resistance syndrome; Syndrome X

## Images

    * ![Abdominal girth measurement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8709t.jpg)Abdominal girth measurement

## References

American Heart Association website. About metabolic syndrome.
www.heart.org/en/health-topics/metabolic-syndrome/about-metabolic-syndrome.
Updated August 2016. Accessed July 8, 2018.

Raynor HA, Champagne CM. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics:
interventions for the treatment of overweight and obesity in adults. _J Acad
Nutr Diet_. 2016;116(1):129-147. PMID: 26718656
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26718656.

Ruderman NB, Shulman GI. Metabolic syndrome. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

US Department of Health and Human Services, President's Council on Sports,
Fitness and Nutrition website. Physical activity guidelines for Americans.
www.hhs.gov/fitness/be-active/physical-activity-guidelines-for-
americans/index.html. Updated April 28, 2017. Accessed July 8, 2018.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
11-30-18: Editorial update.

![Metabolic
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

