Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000323.htm    
                                Description: Diabetes can harm your eyes. It can damage the small blood vessels in your retina, the back wall of your eyeball. This condition is called diabetic retinopathy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes eye exams

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000323.htm

# Diabetes eye exams

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetes can harm your eyes. It can damage the small blood vessels in your
retina, the back wall of your eyeball. This condition is called diabetic
retinopathy.

Diabetes also increases your risk of glaucoma and other eye problems.

You may not know your eyes are harmed until the problem is very bad. Your
doctor can catch problems early if you get regular eye exams. This is very
important. The early stages of diabetic retinopathy don't cause changes in
vision and you won't have symptoms. Only an eye exam can detect the problem,
so that steps can be taken to prevent the retinopathy from getting worse.

## You Need Regular eye Exams

Even if the doctor who takes care of your diabetes checks your eyes, you need
an eye exam every 1 to 2 years by an eye doctor who takes care of people with
diabetes. An eye doctor has equipment that can check the back of your eye much
better than your regular doctor can.

If you have eye problems because of diabetes, you will probably see your eye
doctor more often. You may need special treatment to prevent your eye problems
from getting worse.

You may see two different types of eye doctors:

    * An ophthalmologist is a medical doctor who is an eye specialist.
    * An optometrist is a doctor of optometry. Once you have eye disease caused by diabetes, you will likely also see an ophthalmologist. 

## What is a Dilated Retinal Exam?

The doctor will check your vision using a chart of random letters of different
sizes. This is called the Snellen chart.

You will then be given eye drops to widen (dilate) the pupils of your eyes so
that the doctor can better see the back of the eye. You may feel stinging when
the drops are first placed. You may have a metallic taste in your mouth.

To see the back of your eye, the doctor looks through a special magnifying
glass using a bright light. The doctor can then see areas that may be damaged
by diabetes:

    * Blood vessels in the front or middle parts of the eye
    * The back of the eye
    * The optic nerve area

Another device called a slit lamp is used to see the clear surface of the eye
(cornea).

The doctor may take photos of the back of your eye to get a more detailed
exam.Â This exam is called a digital retinal scan (or imaging). A special
camera is used to take photos of your retina without dilating your eyes. The
doctor then views the photos and lets you know if you need more tests or
treatment.

## After Your eye Exam

If you had drops to dilate your eyes, your vision will be blurred for about 6
hours. It will be harder to focus on things that are near. You should have
someone drive you home.

Also, sunlight can damage your eye more easily when your pupils are dilated.
Wear dark glasses or shade your eyes until the effects of the drops wear off.

## Alternative Names

Diabetic retinopathy - eye exams; Diabetes - eye exams; Glaucoma - diabetic
eye exam; Macular edema - diabetic eye exam

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Diabetic retinopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17150t.jpg)Diabetic retinopathy

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Diabetic retinopathy PPP 2019.
www.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/diabetic-retinopathy-ppp. Updated
October 2019. Accessed January 14, 2020.

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222381.

Brownlee M, Aiello LP, Cooper ME, Vinik AI, Plutzky J, Boulton AJM.
Complications of diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Skugor M. Diabetes mellitus. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson
CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 49.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 01-14-20.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetic Eye Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

