Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007664.htm    
                                Description: Laser photocoagulation is eye surgery using a laser to shrink or destroy abnormal structures in the retina, or to intentionally cause scarring.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laser photocoagulation - eye

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007664.htm

# Laser photocoagulation - eye

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laser photocoagulation is eye surgery using a laser to shrink or destroy
abnormal structures in the retina, or to intentionally cause scarring.

## Description

Your doctor will perform this surgery at an outpatient or office setting.

Photocoagulation takes place by using the laser to create a microscopic burn
in the target tissue. The laser spots are usually applied in 1 of 3 patterns.

Before the procedure, you will be given eye drops to dilate your pupils.
Rarely, you will get a shot of a local anesthetic. The shot may be
uncomfortable. You will be awake and pain-free during the procedure.

    * You will be seated with your chin in a chin rest. A special contact lens will be placed on your eye. The lens contains mirrors that help the doctor aim the laser. You will be instructed to look straight ahead or at a target light with your other eye.
    * The doctor will aim the laser at the area of the retina needing treatment. With each pulse of the laser, you will see a flash of light. Depending on the condition being treated, there may be only a few pulses, or as many as 500.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Diabetes can harm the eyes by causing diabetic retinopathy. It is one of the
most common eye diseases that needs laser photocoagulation. It can damage the
retina, the back part of your eye. The most severe from of the condition is
proliferative diabetic retinopathy, in which abnormal vessels grow on the
retina. Over time, these vessels can bleed or cause scarring of the retina.

In laser photocoagulation for diabetic retinopathy, laser energy is aimed at
certain areas of the retina to prevent abnormal vessels from growing or shrink
those that may already be there. The procedure is sometimes done to get rid of
the buildup of fluid in the center of the eye (macula) that is causing
swelling. Sometimes it is done to make edema fluid in the center of the retina
(macula) go away.

This surgery may also be used to treat the following eye problems:

    * Retinal tumor
    * Macular degeneration, an eye disorder that slowly destroys sharp, central vision
    * A tear in the retina
    * A blockage of the small veins that carry blood away from the retina
    * Retinal detachment, when the retina in the back of the eye separates from the layers below

## Risks

Since each pulse of the laser causes a microscopic burn in the retina, you may
develop:

    * Mild loss of vision
    * Reduced night vision
    * Blind spots
    * Reduced side vision
    * Difficulty focusing
    * Blurred vision
    * Reduced color vision 

If not treated, diabetic retinopathy can cause permanent blindness.

## Before the Procedure

Special preparations are rarely needed before laser photocoagulation. Usually,
both eyes will be dilated for the prodcedure.

Arrange to have someone to drive you home after the procedure.

## After the Procedure

You vision may be blurry for the first 24 hours. You may see floaters, but
these will subside over time. If your treatment was for macular edema, your
vision may seem worse for a few days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Laser surgery works best in the early stages of vision loss. It cannot bring
back lost vision. However, it can greatly reduce the risk of permanent vision
loss.

Managing your diabetes can help prevent diabetic retinopathy. Follow your eye
doctor's advice on how to protect your vision. Have eye exams as often as
recommended, usually once every 1 to 2 years.

## Alternative Names

Laser coagulation; Laser eye surgery; Photocoagulation; Laser photocoagulation
- diabetic eye disease; Laser photocoagulation - diabetic retinopathy; Focal
photocoagulation; Scatter (or pan retinal) photocoagulation; Proliferative
retinopathy - laser; PRP - laser; Grid pattern photocoagulation - laser

## References

Brownlee M, Aiello LP, Cooper ME, Vinik AI, Plutzky J, Boulton AJM.
Complications of diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Lim JI, Rosenblatt BJ, Benson WE. Diabetic retinopathy. In: Yanoff M, Duker
JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 6.21.

Mathew C, Yunirakasiwi A, Sanjay S. Updates in the management of diabetic
macular edema. _J Diabetes Res_. 2015;2015:794036. PMID: 25984537
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25984537.

Wiley HE, Chew EY, Ferris FL. Nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy and
diabetic macular edema. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP,
Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 50.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetic Eye
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticEyeProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Eye Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

