Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001212.htm    
                                Description: Diabetes can harm the eyes. It can damage the small blood vessels in the retina, the back part of your eye. This condition is called diabetic retinopathy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes and eye disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001212.htm

# Diabetes and eye disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetes can harm the eyes. It can damage the small blood vessels in the
retina, the back part of your eye. This condition is called diabetic
retinopathy.

Diabetes also increases the chance of having glaucoma, cataracts, and other
eye problems.

## Causes

Diabetic retinopathy is caused by damage from diabetes to blood vessels of the
retina. The retina is the layer of tissue at the back of the inner eye. It
changes light and images that enter the eye into nerve signals, which are sent
to the brain.

Diabetic retinopathy is a main cause of decreased vision or blindness in
Americans ages 20 to 74 years. People with type 1 or type 2 diabetes are at
risk for this condition.

![Diabetes - retinal
conditions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200052t.gif)Watch this
video about:Diabetes - retinal conditions

The chance of developing retinopathy and having a more severe form is higher
when:

    * You have had diabetes for a long time.
    * Your blood sugar (glucose) has been poorly controlled.
    * You also smoke or you have high blood pressure or high cholesterol. 

If you already have damage to the blood vessels in your eye, some types of
exercise can make the problem worse. Check with your health care provider
before starting an exercise program.

Other eye problems that can occur in people with diabetes include:

    * Cataract \-- Cloudiness of the eye lens.
    * Glaucoma \-- Increased pressure in the eye that can lead to blindness.
    * Macular edema -- Blurry vision due to fluid leaking into the area of the retina that provides sharp central vision.
    * Retinal detachment \-- Scarring that may cause part of the retina to pull away from the back of your eyeball. 

High blood sugar or rapid changes in blood sugar level often cause blurred
vision. This is because the lens in the middle of the eye cannot change shape
when it has too much sugar and water in the lens. This is not the same problem
as diabetic retinopathy.

## Symptoms

Most often, diabetic retinopathy has no symptoms until the damage to your eyes
is severe. This is because damage to much of the retina can occur before your
vision is affected.

Symptoms of diabetic retinopathy include:

    * Blurred vision and slow vision loss over time
    * Floaters
    * Shadows or missing areas of vision
    * Trouble seeing at night 

Many people with early diabetic retinopathy have no symptoms before bleeding
occurs in the eye. This is why everyone with diabetes should have regular eye
exams.

## Exams and Tests

Your eye doctor will examine your eyes. You may first be asked to read an eye
chart. Then you will receive eye drops to widen the pupils of your eyes. Tests
you may have involve:

    * Measuring the fluid pressure inside your eyes (tonometry)
    * Checking the structures inside your eyes (slit lamp exam)
    * Checking and photographing your retinas (fluorescein angiography) 

If you have the early stage of diabetic retinopathy (nonproliferative), the
eye doctor may see:

    * Blood vessels in the eye that are larger in certain spots (called microaneurysms)
    * Blood vessels that are blocked
    * Small amounts of bleeding (retinal hemorrhages) and fluid leaking into the retina 

If you have advanced retinopathy (proliferative), the eye doctor may see:

    * New blood vessels starting to grow in the eye that are weak and can bleed
    * Small scars forming on the retina and in other parts of the eye (the vitreous) 

This exam is different from going to the eye doctor (optometrist) to have your
vision checked and to see whether you need new glasses. If you notice a change
in vision and see an optometrist, make sure you tell the optometrist that you
have diabetes.

## Treatment

People with early diabetic retinopathy may not need treatment. But they should
be closely followed by an eye doctor who is trained to treat diabetic eye
diseases.

Once your eye doctor notices new blood vessels growing in your retina
(neovascularization) or you develop macular edema, treatment is usually
needed.

Eye surgery is the main treatment for diabetic retinopathy.

    * Laser eye surgery creates small burns in the retina where there are abnormal blood vessels. This process is called photocoagulation. It is used to keep vessels from leaking, or to shrink abnormal vessels.
    * Surgery called vitrectomy is used when there is bleeding (hemorrhage) into the eye. It may also be used to repair retinal detachment. 

Medicines that are injected into the eyeball may help prevent abnormal blood
vessels from growing.

Follow your eye doctor's advice on how to protect your vision. Have eye exams
as often as recommended, usually once every 1 to 2 years.

If you have diabetes and your blood sugar has been very high, your doctor will
give you new medicines to lower your blood sugar level. If you have diabetic
retinopathy, your vision can get worse for a short time when you begin taking
medicine that quickly improves your blood sugar level.

## Support Groups

Many resources can help you understand more about diabetes. You can also learn
ways to manage your diabetic retinopathy.

    * American Diabetes Association -- www.diabetes.org
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases -- Â www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diabetes
    * Prevent Blindness America -- www.preventblindness.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Managing your diabetes may help slow diabetic retinopathy and other eye
problems. Control your blood sugar (glucose) level by:

    * Eating healthy foods
    * Getting regular exercise
    * Checking your blood sugar as often as instructed by your diabetes provider and keeping a record of your numbers so you know the types of foods and activities that affect your blood sugar level
    * Taking medicine or insulin as instructed 

Treatments can reduce vision loss. They do not cure diabetic retinopathy or
reverse the changes that have already occurred.

## Possible Complications

Diabetic eye disease can lead to reduced vision and blindness.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with an eye doctor (ophthalmologist) if you have
diabetes and you have not seen an ophthalmologist in the past year.

Call your doctor if any of the following symptoms are new or are becoming
worse:

    * You cannot see well in dim light.
    * You have blind spots.
    * You have double vision (you see two things when there is only one).
    * Your vision is hazy or blurry and you cannot focus.
    * You have pain in one of your eyes.
    * You are having headaches.
    * You see spots floating in your eyes.
    * You cannot see things on the side of your field of vision.
    * You see shadows.

## Prevention

Good control of blood sugar, blood pressure, and cholesterol are very
important for preventing diabetic retinopathy.

DO NOT smoke. If you need help quitting, ask your provider.

Women with diabetes who become pregnant should have more frequent eye exams
during pregnancy and for a year after delivery.

## Alternative Names

Retinopathy - diabetic; Photocoagulation - retina; Diabetic retinopathy

## Patient Instructions

    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam
    * ![Diabetic retinopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23225t.jpg)Diabetic retinopathy

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Diabetic retinopathy PPP - updated
2019. www.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/diabetic-retinopathy-ppp. Updated
October 2019. Accessed January 13, 2020.

American Diabetes Association. 11. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes - 2019. _Diabetes Care._ 2019;42(Suppl
1):S124-S138. PMID: 30559237 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559237.

Skugor M. Diabetes mellitus. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson
CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 49.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 01-13-2020.

![Diabetic Eye
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticEyeProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Eye Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

