Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000078.htm    
                                Description: Diabetes can harm your eyes. It can damage the small blood vessels in your retina, which is the back part of your eye. This condition is called diabetic retinopathy. Diabetes also increases your risk of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes eye care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000078.htm

# Diabetes eye care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetes can harm your eyes. It can damage the small blood vessels in your
retina, which is the back part of your eye. This condition is called diabetic
retinopathy. Diabetes also increases your risk of having glaucoma, cataracts,
and other eye problems.

If you have diabetes, work with your health care provider to take good care of
your eyes.

## Diabetes and Your Eyes

If you have diabetes, you may not know there is any damage to your eyes until
the problem is very bad. Your provider can catch problems early if you get
regular eye exams.

If your provider finds eye problems early, medicines and other treatments may
help prevent them from getting worse.

![Diabetes - retinal
conditions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200052t.gif)Watch this
video about:Diabetes - retinal conditions

## You Need Regular Eye Exams

Every year, you should have an eye exam by an eye doctor (ophthalmologist or
optometrist). Choose an eye doctor who takes care of people with diabetes.

Your eye exam may include:

    * Dilating your eyes to allow a good view of the entire retina. Only an eye doctor can do this exam.
    * At times, special photographs of your retina may replace the dilated eye exam. This is called digital retinal photography.

Your eye doctor may ask you to come more or less often than once a year
depending on the eye exam results and how well your blood sugar is controlled.

## How to Prevent Eye Problems

Control your blood sugar levels. High blood sugar increases your chance of
having eye problems.

High blood sugar can also cause blurred vision that is not related to diabetic
retinopathy. This kind of blurred vision is caused by having too much sugar
and water in the lens of the eye, which is in front of the retina.

Control your blood pressure:

    * Blood pressure less than 140/90 is a good goal for people with diabetes. Your provider may tell you that your pressure needs to be lower than 140/90.
    * Have your blood pressure checked often and at least twice each year.
    * If you take medicines to control your blood pressure, take them as your doctor instructs.

Control your cholesterol levels:

    * Abnormal cholesterol levels can also lead to diabetic retinopathy.
    * Your provider may prescribe medicines to help lower your LDL (bad cholesterol) and triglycerides. Take the medicines as directed.

DO NOT smoke. If you need help quitting, ask your provider.

If you already have eye problems, ask your provider if you should avoid
exercises that can strain the blood vessels in your eyes. Exercises that may
make eye problems worse include:

    * Weight lifting and other exercises that make you strain
    * High-impact exercise, such as football or hockey

## Make it Easier for Yourself at Home

If your vision is affected by diabetes, make sure your home is safe enough
that your chance of falling is low. Ask your provider about having a home
assessment done. For people with diabetes, the combination of poor vision and
nerve problems in the legs and feet can affect balance. This increases the
chance of falling.

If you cannot read the labels on your medicines easily:

    * Use felt tip pens to label medicine bottles, so you can read them easily.
    * Use rubber bands or clips to tell medicine bottles apart.
    * Ask someone else to give you your medicines.
    * Always read labels with a magnifying lens.
    * Use a pillbox with compartments for days of the week and times of the day, if you need to take medicines more than once a day. 

Never guess when taking your medicines. If you are unsure of your doses, talk
with your doctor, nurse, or pharmacist.

Keep medicines and other household items organized in a cabinet so you know
where they are.

To make foods that are on your diabetes meal plan:

    * Use large-print cookbooks
    * Use a full-page magnifier
    * High-definition (HD) magnifier
    * For online recipes, use the zoom function on your keyboard to make the font bigger on your monitor
    * Ask your eye doctor about other low vision aids 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Cannot see well in dim light
    * Have blind spots
    * Have double vision (you see two things when there is only one)
    * Vision is hazy or blurry and you cannot focus
    * Eye pain
    * Headaches
    * Spots floating in your eyes
    * Cannot see things on the side of your field of vision
    * See shadows

## Alternative Names

Diabetic retinopathy - care

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Preferred practice pattern
guidelines. Diabetic retinopathy PPP 2019. www.aao.org/preferred-practice-
pattern/diabetic-retinopathy-ppp. Updated October 2019. Accessed January 14,
2020.

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_.
2018;41(Suppl1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222381.

Bowling B. Retinal vascular disease. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical
Ophthalmology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap13.

Cagliero E. Diabetes and long-term complications. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

## Read More

    * Diabetes and eye disease
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Preventing falls

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update on 01-14-20.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetic Eye Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

