Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000494.htm    
                                Description: Kidney disease or kidney damage often occurs over time in people with diabetes. This type of kidney disease is called diabetic nephropathy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes and kidney disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000494.htm

# Diabetes and kidney disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kidney disease or kidney damage often occurs over time in people with
diabetes. This type of kidney disease is called diabetic nephropathy.

## Causes

Each kidney is made of hundreds of thousands of small units called nephrons.
These structures filter your blood, help remove waste from the body, and
control fluid balance.

In people with diabetes, the nephrons slowly thicken and become scarred over
time. The nephrons begin to leak, and protein (albumin) passes into the urine.
This damage can happen years before any symptoms of kidney disease begin.

Kidney damage is more likely if you:

    * Have uncontrolled blood sugar
    * Are obese
    * Have high blood pressure
    * Have type 1 diabetes that began before you were 20 years old
    * Have family members who also have diabetes and kidney problems
    * Smoke
    * Are African American, Mexican American, or Native American 

## Symptoms

Often, there are no symptoms as the kidney damage starts and slowly gets
worse. Kidney damage can begin 5 to 10 years before symptoms start.

People who have more severe and long-term (chronic) kidney disease may have
symptoms such as:

    * Fatigue most of the time
    * General ill feeling
    * Headache 
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Nausea and vomiting 
    * Poor appetite
    * Swelling of the legs
    * Shortness of breath
    * Itchy skin
    * Easily develop infections

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will order tests to detect signs of kidney problems.

A urine test looks for a protein called albumin leaking into the urine.

    * Too much albumin in the urine is often a sign of kidney damage.
    * This test is also called a microalbuminuria test because it measures small amounts of albumin. 

Your provider will also check your blood pressure. High blood pressure damages
your kidneys and is harder to control when you have kidney damage.

A kidney biopsy may be ordered to confirm the diagnosis or look for other
causes of kidney damage.

If you have diabetes, your provider will also check your kidneys by using the
following blood tests every year:

    * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
    * Serum creatinine

## Treatment

When kidney damage is caught in its early stages, it can be slowed with
treatment. Once larger amounts of protein appear in the urine, kidney damage
will slowly get worse.

Follow your provider's advice to keep your condition from getting worse.

CONTROL YOUR BLOOD PRESSURE

Keeping your blood pressure under control (below 140/90 mm Hg) is one of the
best ways to slow kidney damage.

    * Your provider will prescribe blood pressure medicines to protect your kidneys from more damage if your microalbumin test is too high on at least two measurements.
    * If your blood pressure is in the normal range and you have microalbuminuria, you may be asked to take blood pressure drugs, but this recommendation is now controversial.

CONTROL YOUR BLOOD SUGAR LEVEL

You can also slow kidney damage by controlling your blood sugar level through:

    * Eating healthy foods
    * Getting regular exercise
    * Taking medicine or insulin as instructed by your provider
    * Checking your blood sugar level as often as instructed and keeping a record of your blood sugar numbers so that you know how meals and activities affect your level 

OTHER WAYS TO PROTECT YOUR KIDNEYS

    * Contrast dye that is sometimes used with an MRI, CT scan, or other imaging test can cause more damage to your kidneys. Tell the provider who is ordering the test that you have diabetes. Follow instructions on drinking lots of water after the procedure to flush the dye out of your system.
    * Avoid taking an NSAID pain medicine, such as ibuprofen or naproxen. Ask your provider if there is another kind of medicine that you can take instead. NSAIDs can damage the kidneys, more so when you use them every day.
    * Your provider may need to stop or change other medicines that can damage your kidneys.
    * Know the signs of urinary tract infections and get them treated right away.
    * Having a low level of vitamin D may worsen kidney disease. Ask your doctor if you need to take vitamin D supplements.

## Support Groups

Many resources can help you understand more about diabetes. You can also learn
ways to manage your kidney disease.

    * American Diabetes Association -- www.diabetes.org
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases -- www.diabetes.niddk.nih.gov
    * National Kidney Foundation -- www.kidney.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Diabetic kidney disease is a major cause of sickness and death in people with
diabetes. It can lead to the need for dialysis or a kidney transplant.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have diabetes and you have not had a urine test to
check for protein.

## Alternative Names

Diabetic nephropathy; Nephropathy - diabetic; Diabetic glomerulosclerosis;
Kimmelstiel-Wilson disease

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system
    * ![Pancreas and kidneys](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19264t.jpg)Pancreas and kidneys
    * ![Diabetic nephropathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19713t.jpg)Diabetic nephropathy

## References

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222381.

Brownlee M, Aiello LP, Cooper ME, Vinik AI, Plutzky J, Boulton AJM.
Complications of diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Tong LL, Adler S, Wanner C. Prevention and treatment of diabetic kidney
disease. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive
Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 31.

Vijan S. In the clinic. Type 2 diabetes. _Ann Intern Med_. 2015;162(5):ITC1-
ITC16. PMID: 25732301 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25732301.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetic Kidney
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticKidneyProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Kidney Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

