Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000013.htm    
                                Description: You have had a foot amputation. You may have had an accident, or your foot may have had an infection or disease and doctors could not save it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foot amputation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000013.htm

# Foot amputation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have had a foot amputation. You may have had an accident, or your foot may
have had an infection or disease and doctors could not save it.

## What to Expect at Home

You may feel sad, angry, frustrated, or depressed. All of these feelings are
normal and may arise in the hospital or when you get home.

It will take time for you to learn to use a walker and a wheelchair. It will
also take time to learn to get in and out of the wheelchair.

You may be getting a prosthesis, a man-made part to replace your limb that was
removed. You will have to wait for the prosthesis to be made. When you have
it, getting used to it will take time.

You may have pain in your limb for several days after the surgery. You may
also have a feeling that your limb is still there. This is called phantom
sensation.

## Self-care

Family and friends can help. Talking with them about your feelings may make
you feel better. They can also help you do things around your house and when
you go out.

If you feel sad or depressed, ask your health care provider about seeing a
mental health counselor for help with your feelings about your amputation.

If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar under control.

If you have poor blood flow to your foot, follow your provider's instructions
for diet and medicines.

You may eat your normal foods when you get home.

If you smoke before your injury, stop after your surgery. Smoking can affect
blood flow and slow down healing. Ask your provider for help on how to quit.

## Wound and Foot Care

DO NOT use your limb until your provider tells you it is OK. This will be at
least 2 weeks or longer after your surgery. DO NOT put any weight at all on
your wound. DO NOT even touch it to the ground, unless your doctor says so. DO
NOT drive.

Keep the wound clean and dry. DO NOT take a bath, soak your wound, or swim. If
your doctor says you can, clean the wound gently with mild soap. DO NOT rub
the wound. Only allow water to flow gently over it.

After your wound heals, keep it open to the air unless your doctor or nurse
tells you something different. After dressings have been removed, wash your
stump with mild soap and water every day. DO NOT soak it. Dry it well.

Inspect your limb every day. Use a mirror if it is hard for you to see all
around it. Look for any red areas or dirt.

Wear your elastic bandage or shrinker sock on the stump all the time. If you
are using an elastic bandage, rewrap it every 2 to 4 hours. Make sure there
are no creases in it. Wear your stump protector whenever you are out of bed.

Ask your provider for help with pain. Two things that may help include:

    * Tapping along the scar and in small circles along the stump, if it is not painful
    * Rubbing the scar and stump gently with linen or soft cotton 

Practice transfers with or without prosthesis at home.

    * Go from your bed to your wheelchair, a chair, or the toilet.
    * Go from a chair to your wheelchair.
    * Go from your wheelchair to the toilet. 

If you use a walker, stay as active as you can with it.

Keep your stump at or above the level of your heart when you are lying down.
When you are sitting, DO NOT cross your legs. It can stop the blood flow to
your stump.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your stump looks redder, or there are red streaks on your skin going up your leg
    * Your skin feels warmer to touch
    * There is swelling or bulging around the wound
    * There is new drainage or bleeding from the wound
    * There are new openings in the wound, or the skin around the wound is pulling away
    * Your temperature is above 101.5Â°F (38.6Â°C) more than once
    * Your skin around the stump or wound is dark or is turning black
    * Your pain is worse and your pain medicines are not controlling it
    * Your wound has gotten larger
    * A foul smell is coming from the wound 

## Alternative Names

Amputation - foot - discharge; Trans-metatarsal amputation - discharge

## References

Richardson DR. Amputations of the foot. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 15.

Toy PC. General principles of amputations. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST,
eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

US Department of Veterans Affairs website. VA/DoD clinical practice guideline:
Rehabilitation of lower limb amputation (2017).
www.healthquality.va.gov/guidelines/Rehab/amp. Updated October 3, 2017.
Accessed May 4, 2018.

## Read More

    * Leg or foot amputation
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Traumatic amputation
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Phantom limb pain
    * Preventing falls
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetic Foot
    * Limb Loss

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

