Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000018.htm    
                                Description: You will need to change the dressing on your limb. This will help your stump heal and stay healthy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leg or foot amputation - dressing change

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000018.htm

# Leg or foot amputation - dressing change

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You will need to change the dressing on your limb. This will help your stump
heal and stay healthy.

## Supplies

Gather the supplies you will need to change your dressing, and place them on a
clean work area. You will need:

    * Paper tape
    * Scissors
    * Gauze pads or clean wash cloths to clean and dry your wound
    * ADAPTIC dressing that does not stick to the wound
    * 4-inch by 4-inch (10 cm by 10 cm) gauze pad, or 5-inch by 9-inch (13 cm by 23cm) abdominal dressing pad (ABD)
    * Gauze wraps or Kling roll
    * Plastic bag
    * A basin for water and soap to clean your hands while changing the dressings 

## Taking off the old Dressing

Take off your old dressing only if your health care provider tells you to.
Wash your hands with soap and warm water. Rinse with warm water and dry with a
clean towel.

Remove the elastic bandages from the stump, and set them aside. Put a clean
towel under your leg before you take the old dressing off. Remove the tape.
Unwind the outer wrap, or cut off the outer dressing with clean scissors.

Gently remove the dressing from the wound. If the dressing is stuck, wet it
with warm tap water, wait 3 to 5 minutes for it to loosen, and remove it.
Place the old dressing in the plastic bag.

## Wound Care

Wash your hands again. Use soap and water on a gauze pad or a clean cloth to
wash your wound. Start at one end of the wound and clean it to the other end.
Be sure to wash away any drainage or dried blood. DO NOT scrub the wound hard.

Pat the wound gently with a dry gauze pad or a clean towel to dry it from one
end to the other. Inspect the wound for redness, drainage, or swelling.

## Placing the new Dressing

Cover the wound with the dressing. Put on the ADAPTIC dressing first. Then
follow with a gauze pad or ABD pad. Wrap with the gauze or Kling roll to hold
the dressing in place. Put the dressing on lightly. Putting it on tightly can
decrease blood flow to your wound and slow healing.

Tape the end of the dressing to hold it in place. Be sure to tape onto the
dressing and not onto the skin. Put the elastic bandage on around the stump.

Clean up the work area and place the old dressing in the trash. Wash your
hands.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your stump looks redder, or there are red streaks on your skin going up your leg.
    * Your skin feels warmer to touch.
    * There is swelling or bulging around the wound.
    * There is new drainage or bleeding from the wound.
    * There are new openings in the wound or the skin around the wound is pulling away.
    * Your temperature is above 101.5Â°F (38.6Â°C) more than one time.
    * The skin around the stump or wound is dark or turning black.
    * Your pain is worse, and your pain medicines are not controlling it.
    * Your wound has gotten larger.
    * A foul smell is coming from your wound. 

## References

Lavelle DG. Amputations of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Rose E. Management of amputations. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW,
eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 47.

The American Association for the Surgery of Trauma website. Nagy K. Discharge
instructions for wound cares. www.aast.org/discharge-instructions-for-wound-
cares. Updated August 2013. Accessed May 14, 2018.

US Department of Veterans Affairs website. VA/DoD clinical practice guideline:
Rehabilitation of lower limb amputation (2017).
www.healthquality.va.gov/guidelines/Rehab/amp. Updated October 3, 2018.
Accessed May 14, 2018.

## Read More

    * Compartment syndrome
    * Leg or foot amputation
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Phantom limb pain
    * Preventing falls
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetic Foot
    * Limb Loss

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

