Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000081.htm    
                                Description: Diabetes can damage the nerves and blood vessels in your feet. This damage can cause numbness and reduce feeling in your feet. As a result, your feet may not heal well if they are injured. If you get a    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes - taking care of your feet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000081.htm

# Diabetes - taking care of your feet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetes can damage the nerves and blood vessels in your feet. This damage can
cause numbness and reduce feeling in your feet. As a result, your feet may not
heal well if they are injured. If you get a blister, you may not notice and it
may get worse. Even small sores or blisters can become big problems if
infection develops or they don't heal. A diabetic foot ulcer can result. Foot
ulcers are a common reason for hospital stays for people with diabetes. Taking
good care of your feet can help prevent diabetic foot ulcers.

## Self-care

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to take care of your
feet. Use the information below as a reminder.

Check your feet every day. Inspect the tops, sides, soles, heels, and between
your toes. Look for:

    * Dry and cracked skin
    * Blisters or sores
    * Bruises or cuts
    * Redness, warmth, or tenderness
    * Firm or hard spots 

If you cannot see well, ask someone else to check your feet.

Wash your feet every day with lukewarm water and mild soap. Strong soaps may
damage the skin.

    * Check the temperature of the water with your hand or elbow first.
    * Gently dry your feet, especially between the toes.
    * Use lotion, petroleum jelly, lanolin, or oil on dry skin. DO NOT put lotion, oil, or cream between your toes. 

Ask your provider to show you how to trim your toenails.

    * Soak your feet in lukewarm water to soften your toenails before trimming.
    * Cut the nails straight across. Curved nails are more likely to become ingrown.
    * Make sure the edge of each nail does not press into the skin of the next toe. 

Your foot doctor (podiatrist) can trim your toenails if you are unable to. If
your toenails are thick and discolored (fungal infection) do not trim the
nails yourself. If your vision is poor or you have decreased sensation in your
feet, you should see a podiatrist to trim your toenails.

Most people with diabetes should have corns or calluses treated by a foot
doctor. If your doctor has given you permission to treat corns or calluses on
your own:

    * Gently use a pumice stone to remove corns and calluses after a shower or bath, when your skin is soft.
    * Don't use medicated pads or try to shave or cut corns and calluses away at home. 

If you smoke, stop. Smoking decreases blood flow to your feet. Talk to your
provider or nurse if you need help quitting.

Do not use a heating pad or hot water bottle on your feet. Don't walk
barefoot, particularly on hot pavement or hot, sandy beaches. Remove your
shoes and socks during visits to your provider so that they can check your
feet.

## Shoes and Socks

Wear shoes at all times to protect your feet from injury. Before you put them
on, always check the inside of your shoes for stones, nails, or rough areas
that may hurt your feet.

Wear shoes that are comfortable and fit well when you buy them. Never buy
shoes that are tight, not even it you think they will stretch as you wear
them. You may not feel pressure from shoes that DO NOT fit well. Blisters and
sores can develop when your foot presses against your shoe.

Ask your provider about special shoes that can give your feet more room. When
you get new shoes, break them in slowly. Wear them 1 or 2 hours a day for the
first 1 or 2 weeks.

Change your broken-in shoes after 5 hours during the day to change the
pressure points on your feet. DO NOT wear flip-flop sandals or stockings with
seams. Both can cause pressure points.

To protect your feet, wear clean, dry socks or non-binding panty hose every
day. Holes in socks or stockings can put damaging pressure on your toes.

You may want special socks with extra padding. Socks that move moisture away
from your feet will keep your feet drier. In cold weather, wear warm socks,
and DO NOT stay out in the cold for very long. Wear clean, dry socks to bed if
your feet are cold.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right way about any foot problems you have. Do not try to
treat these problems yourself. Call your provider if you have any of the
following changes to any part of your foot:

    * Redness, increased warmth, or swelling
    * Sores or cracks
    * Tingling or burning feeling
    * Pain

## Alternative Names

Diabetes - foot care - self-care; Diabetic foot ulcer - foot care; Diabetic
neuropathy - foot care

## Images

    * ![Proper fitting shoe](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22943t.jpg)Proper fitting shoes
    * ![Diabetic foot care](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17149t.jpg)Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * ![Diabetic foot care](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8637t.jpg)Diabetic foot care

## References

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_.
2018;41(Suppl1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222381.

Kalish J, Pomposelli FB. Diabetic foot and vascular complications. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 55.

Kim PJ, Steinberg JS. Complications of the diabetic foot. _Endocrinol Metab
Clin North Am_. 2013;42(4):833-847. PMID: 24286952
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24286952.

## Read More

    * Diabetes
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diabetic Foot

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

