Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007748.htm    
                                Description: Charcot foot is a condition that affects the bones, joints, and soft tissue in the feet and ankles. It can develop as a result of nerve damage in the feet due to diabetes or other nerve injuries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Charcot foot

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007748.htm

# Charcot foot

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Charcot foot is a condition that affects the bones, joints, and soft tissue in
the feet and ankles. It can develop as a result of nerve damage in the feet
due to diabetes or other nerve injuries.

## Causes

Charcot foot is a rare and disabling disorder. It is a result of nerve damage
in the feet (peripheral neuropathy).

Diabetes is the most common cause of this type of nerve damage. This damage is
more common in people with type 1 diabetes. When blood sugar levels are high
over a long time, both nerve and blood vessel damage occurs in the feet.

Nerve damage makes it harder to notice the amount of pressure on the foot or
if it is being stressed. The result is ongoing small injuries to the bones and
ligaments that support the foot.

    * You may develop bone stress fractures in your feet, yet never know it.
    * Continuing to walk on the fractured bone often leads to further bone and joint damage. 

Other factors leading to foot damage include:

    * Blood vessel damage from diabetes can increase or change blood flow to the feet. This can lead to bone loss. Weakened bones in the feet increase the risk of fracture.
    * Injury to the foot signals the body to produce more inflammation-causing chemicals. This contributes to swelling and bone loss. 

## Symptoms

Early foot symptoms may include:

    * Mild pain and discomfort
    * Redness
    * Swelling
    * Warmth in the affected foot (noticeably warmer than the other foot)

At later stages, bones in the foot break and move out of place, causing the
foot or ankle to become deformed.

    * A classic sign of Charcot is rocker-bottom foot. This occurs when the bones in middle of the foot collapse. This causes the arch of the foot to collapse and bow downward.
    * The toes may curl downward.

Bones that stick out at odd angles can lead to pressure sores and foot ulcers.

    * Because the feet are numb, these sores may grow wider or deeper before they are noticed.
    * High blood sugar also makes it hard for the body to fight infection. As a result, these foot ulcers become infected.

## Exams and Tests

Charcot foot is not always easy to diagnose early on. It can be mistaken for
bone infection, arthritis or joint swelling. Your health care provider will
take your medical history and examine your foot and ankle.

Blood tests and other lab work may be done to help rule out other causes.

Your provider may check for nerve damage with these tests:

    * Electromyography
    * Nerve conduction velocity tests
    * Nerve biopsy

The following tests may be done to check for bone and joint damage:

    * FootÂ X-rays
    * MRI
    * Bone scan

Foot x-rays may look normal at early stages of the condition. Diagnosis often
comes down to recognizing early symptoms of Charcot foot: swelling, redness,
and warmth of the affected foot.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to stop bone loss, allow bones to heal, and prevent
bones from moving out of place (deformity).

 **Immobilization.** Your provider will have you wear a total contact cast.
This will help limit movement of your foot and ankle. You will likely be asked
to keep your weight off your foot entirely, so you will need to use crutches,
a knee-walker device, or wheelchair.

You will have new casts placed on your foot as the swelling comes down.
Healing can take a couple of months or more.

 **Protective footwear.** Once your foot has healed, your provider may suggest
footwear to help support your foot and prevent re-injury. These may include:

    * Splints
    * Braces
    * Orthotic insoles
    * Charcot restraint orthotic walker, a special boot that provides even pressure to the whole foot

 **Activity changes.** You will always be at risk for Charcot foot coming back
or developing in your other foot. So your provider may recommend activity
changes, such as limiting your standing or walking, to protect your feet.

 **Surgery.** You may need surgery if you have foot ulcers that keep coming
back or severe foot or ankle deformity. Surgery can help stabilize your foot
and ankle joints and remove bony areas to prevent foot ulcers.

 **Ongoing monitoring.** You will need to see your provider for checkups and
take steps to protect your feet for the rest of your life.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The prognosis depends on the severity of foot deformity and how well you heal.
Many people do well with braces, activity changes, and ongoing monitoring.

## Possible Complications

Severe deformity of the foot increases the risk of foot ulcers. If ulcers
become infected and hard to treat, it may require amputation.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider of you have diabetes and your foot is warm, red, or
swollen.

## Prevention

Healthy habits can help prevent or delay Charcot foot:

    * Keep good control of your blood glucose levels to help prevent or delay Charcot foot. But it can still occur, even in people with good diabetes control.
    * Take care of your feet. Check them every day.
    * See your foot doctor regularly.
    * Check your feet regularly to look for cuts, redness and sores.
    * Avoid injuring your feet.

## Alternative Names

Charcot joint; Neuropathic arthropathy; Charcot neuropathic osteoarthropathy;
Charcot arthropathy; Charcot osteoarthropathy; Diabetic Charcot foot

## Images

    * ![Nerve conduction test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9743t.jpg)Nerve conduction test
    * ![Diabetes and nerve damage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19820t.jpg)Diabetes and nerve damage
    * ![Diabetic foot care](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17149t.jpg)Diabetic foot care

## References

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care:
standards of medical care in diabetes - 2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl
1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222381.

Baxi O, Yeranosian M, Lin A, Munoz M, Lin S. Orthotic management of
neuropathic and dysvascular feet. In: Webster JB, Murphy DP, eds. _Atlas of
Orthoses and Assistive Devices_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
26.

Brownleee M, Aiello LP, Cooper ME, Vinik AI, Plutzky J, Boulton AJM.
Complications of diabetes mellitus. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR,
Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Kimble B. Charcot joint. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2019_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap307.

Rogers LC, Armstrong DG, et al. Podiatric care. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 116.

Rogers LC, Frykberg RG, Armstrong DG, et al. The Charcot foot in diabetes.
_Diabetes Care_. 2011; 34(9): 2123-2129. PMID:
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21868781.

## Review Date 12/31/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetic
Foot](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticFoot_thumb.jpg)Diabetic Foot
_Read more_

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

