Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007228.htm    
                                Description: Hyperglycemia is abnormally high blood sugar. The medical term for blood sugar is blood glucose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperglycemia - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007228.htm

# Hyperglycemia - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperglycemia is abnormally high blood sugar. The medical term for blood sugar
is blood glucose.

This article discusses hyperglycemia in infants.

## Causes

A healthy baby's body most often has very careful control of blood sugar
level. Insulin is the main hormone in the body that regulates blood sugar.
Sick babies may have poor insulin function or low amounts. This causes poor
control of the blood sugar.

There can be specific causes of ineffective or low insulin. Causes may include
infection, liver problems, hormone problems, and some medicines. Rarely,
babies may actually have diabetes, and therefore have a low insulin level that
results in high blood sugar.

## Symptoms

Babies with hyperglycemia often have no symptoms.

Sometimes, babies with high blood sugar will produce large amounts of urine
and become dehydrated. High blood sugar may be a sign that the baby has added
stress on the body due to problems such as an infection or heart failure.

## Exams and Tests

A blood test will be done to check the baby's blood sugar level. This can be
done with a heel or finger stick at the bedside or in a health care provider's
office or lab.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There are most often no long-term effects from a temporary high blood sugar
level unless the baby has diabetes.

## Alternative Names

High blood sugar - infants; High blood glucose level - infants

## Images

    * ![Hyperglycemia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21724t.jpg)Hyperglycemia

## References

Devaskar SU, Garg M. Disorders of carbohydrate metabolism in the neonate. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 95.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Electrolyte and acid-base
disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperglycemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperglycemia_thumb.jpg)Hyperglycemia
_Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

