Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000778.htm    
                                Description: Prediabetes occurs when the level of sugar (glucose) in your blood is too high, but not high enough to be called diabetes.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prediabetes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000778.htm

# Prediabetes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prediabetes occurs when the level of sugar (glucose) in your blood is too
high, but not high enough to be called diabetes.

If you have prediabetes, you are at a much higher risk of developing type 2
diabetes within 10 years. It also increases your risk for heart disease and
stroke.

Losing extra weight and getting regular exercise can often stop prediabetes
from becoming type 2 diabetes.

## About Prediabetes

Your body gets energy from the glucose in your blood. A hormone called insulin
helps the cells in your body use glucose. If you have prediabetes, this
process does not work as well. Glucose builds up in your bloodstream. If the
levels get high enough, it means you have developed type 2 diabetes.

If you are at risk for diabetes, your health care provider will test your
blood sugar using one or more of the following tests. Any of the following
test results indicate prediabetes:

    * Fasting blood glucose of 100 to 125 mg/dL (called impaired fasting glucose)
    * Blood glucose of 140 to 199 mg/dL 2 hours after taking 75 grams of glucose (called impaired glucose tolerance)
    * A1C level of 5.7% to 6.4% 

Having diabetes increases the risk for certain health problems. This is
because high glucose levels in the blood can damage the blood vessels and
nerves. This can lead to heart disease and stroke. If you have prediabetes,
damage may already be occurring in your blood vessels.

Having prediabetes is a wake-up call to take action to improve your health.

## How to Help Prevent Diabetes

Your provider will talk with you about your condition and your risks from
prediabetes. To help you prevent diabetes, your provider will likely suggest
certain lifestyle changes:

    *  **Eat healthy foods.** This includes whole grains, lean proteins, low-fat dairy, and plenty of fruits and vegetables. Watch portion sizes and avoid sweets and fried foods.
    *  **Lose weight.** Just a small weight loss can make a big difference in your health. For example, your provider may suggest that you lose about 5% to 7% of your body weight. So, if you weigh 200 pounds (90 kilograms), to lose 7% your goal would be to lose about 14 pounds (6.3 kilograms). Your provider may suggest a diet, or you can join a program to help you lose weight.
    *  **Get more exercise.** Aim to get at least 30 to 60 minutes of moderate exercise at least 5 days a week. This can include brisk walking, riding your bike, or swimming. You can also break up exercise into smaller sessions throughout the day. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Even small amounts of activity count toward your weekly goal.
    *  **Take medicines as directed.** Your provider may prescribe metformin to reduce the chance that your prediabetes will progress to diabetes. Depending on your other risk factors for heart disease, your provider may also prescribe medicines to lower your blood cholesterol level or blood pressure. 

## Risk Factors

You can't tell that you have prediabetes because it has no symptoms. The only
way to know is through a blood test. Your provider will test your blood sugar
if you are at risk for diabetes. The risk factors for prediabetes are the same
as those for type 2 diabetes.

You should get tested for prediabetes if you are age 45 or older. If you are
younger than 45, you should get tested if you are overweight or obese and have
one or more of these risk factors:

    * A previous diabetes test showing diabetes risk
    * A parent, sibling, or child with a history of diabetes
    * Inactive lifestyle and lack of regular exercise
    * African American, Hispanic/Latin American, American Indian and Alaska Native, Asian American, or Pacific Islander ethnicity
    * High blood pressure (140/90 mm Hg or higher)
    * Low HDL (good) cholesterol or high triglycerides
    * History of heart disease
    * History of diabetes during pregnancy (gestational diabetes)
    * Health conditions associated with insulin resistance (polycystic ovary syndrome, acanthosis nigricans, severe obesity) 

## Follow-Up Testing

If your blood test results show that you have prediabetes, your provider may
suggest that you be retested once each year. If your results are normal, your
provider may suggest getting retested every 3 years.

## Alternative Names

Impaired fasting glucose - prediabetes; Impaired glucose tolerance -
prediabetes

## Images

    * ![Diabetes risk factors](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9273t.jpg)Diabetes risk factors

## References

American Diabetes Association. Standards of medical care in diabetes - 2020.
_Diabetes Care_. 2020;43(Suppl 1):S77-S88.
care.diabetesjournals.org/content/43/Supplement_1/S77.

Kahn CR, Ferris HA, OâNeill BT. Pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
In: Melmed S, Auchus RJ, Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ, Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams
Textbook of Endocrinology_. 14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 34.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for abnormal blood
glucose and type 2 diabetes mellitus: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2015;163(11):861-868. PMID:
26501513 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26501513.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Prediabetes

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

