Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001260.htm    
                                Description: Spondylolisthesis is a condition in which a bone (vertebra) in the spine moves forward out of the proper position onto the bone below it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spondylolisthesis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001260.htm

# Spondylolisthesis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spondylolisthesis is a condition in which a bone (vertebra) in the spine moves
forward out of the proper position onto the bone below it.

## Causes

In children, spondylolisthesis usually occurs between the fifth bone in the
lower back (lumbar vertebra) and the first bone in the sacrum (pelvis) area.
It is often due to a birth defect in that area of the spine or sudden injury
(acute trauma).

In adults, the most common cause is abnormal wear on the cartilage and bones,
such as arthritis. The condition mostly affects people over 50 years old. It
is more common in women than in men.

Bone disease and fractures can also cause spondylolisthesis. Certain sports
activities, such as gymnastics, weightlifting, and football, greatly stress
the bones in the lower back. They also require that the athlete constantly
overstretch (hyperextend) the spine. This can lead to a stress fracture on one
or both sides of the vertebra. A stress fracture can cause a spinal bone to
become weak and shift out of place.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of spondylolisthesis may vary from mild to severe. A person with
spondylolisthesis may have no symptoms. Children may not show symptoms until
they're 18 years old.

The condition canÂ lead toÂ increased lordosis (also called swayback). In
later stages, it may result in kyphosis (roundback) as the upper spine falls
off the lower spine.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Lower back pain
    * Muscle tightness (tight hamstring muscle)
    * Pain, numbness, or tinglingÂ in the thighs and buttocks
    * Stiffness
    * Tenderness in the area of the vertebra that is out of place
    * Weakness in the legs

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and feel your spine. You will be
asked to raise your leg straight out in front of you. ThisÂ may be
uncomfortable or painful.

X-ray of the spine can show if a bone in the spine is out of place or broken.

CT scan or MRI scan of the spine can show if there is any narrowing of the
spinal canal.Â

## Treatment

Treatment depends on how severely the vertebra has shifted out of place. Most
people get better with exercises that stretch and strengthen lower back
muscles.

If the shift is not severe, you can play most sports if there is no pain. Most
of the time, you can slowly resume activities.

You may be asked to avoid contact sports or to change activities to protect
your back from being overextended.

You will have follow-up x-rays to make sure the problem is not getting worse.

Your provider may also recommend:

    * A back brace to limit spine movement 
    * Pain medicine (taken by mouth or injected into the back)
    * Physical therapy

Surgery may be needed to fuse the shifted vertebrae if you have:

    * Severe pain that does not get better with treatment
    * A severe shift of a spine bone
    * Weakness of muscles in one or both of your legs
    * Difficulty with controlling your bowels and bladder

There is a chance of nerve injury with such surgery. However, the results can
be very successful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Exercises and changes in activity are helpful for most people with mild
spondylolisthesis.

## Possible Complications

If too much movement occurs, the bones may begin to press on nerves. Surgery
may be necessary to correct the condition.

Other complications may include:

    * Long-term (chronic) back pain
    * Infection
    * Temporary or permanent damage of spinal nerve roots, which may cause sensation changes, weakness, or paralysis of the legs 
    * Difficulty controlling your bowel and bladder

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * The back appears to have a severe curve
    * You have back pain or stiffness that does not go away
    * You have pain in the thighs and buttocks that does not go away
    * You have numbness and weakness in legs

## Alternative Names

Low back pain - spondylolisthesis; LBP - spondylolisthesis; Lumbar pain -
spondylolisthesis; Degenerative spine - spondylolisthesis

## References

Porter AST. Spondylolisthesis. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC, eds. _Clinical
Orthopaedic Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018: chap 80.

Williams KD. Spondylolisthesis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 40.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lesiones y enfermedades de la columna
vertebral](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpineInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Spine
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

