Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007442.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the thoracic spine is an imaging method. This uses x-rays to rapidly create detailed pictures of the middle back (thoracic spine).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thoracic spine CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007442.htm

# Thoracic spine CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the thoracic spine is an imaging method.
This uses x-rays to rapidly create detailed pictures of the middle back
(thoracic spine).

## How the Test is Performed

You will lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the CT scanner.

Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
(Modern "spiral" scanners can perform the exam without stopping.)

A computer creates separate images of the body area. These are called slices.
These images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. The
slices together can create three-dimensional models of the body area.

You must be still during the exam. Movement will create blurred images. You
may be told to hold your breath for short periods of time.

The scan should take only 10 to 15 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain exams require a special dye, called contrast. Contrast is delivered
into the body before the test starts. This helps certain areas show up better
on the x-rays.

Contrast can be given in several ways. It may be given as an injection
through:

    * A vein (IV) in your hand or forearm.
    * Your back into the space surrounding the spinal cord.

If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4
to 6 hours before the test.

Before receiving the contrast, tell your health care provider if:

    * You have ever had a reaction to contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test to safely receive the dye.
    * You take the diabetes medicine metformin (Glucophage). You may need to take extra steps if you take this medicine.

Find out if the CT machine has a weight limit if you weigh more than 300
pounds (135 kilograms). Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner.

You will be asked to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the study.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may find it uncomfortable to lie on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause:

    * Slight burning feeling
    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Warm flushing of the body

These feelings are normal and will often go away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT rapidly creates detailed pictures of the thoracic spine. The test may help
diagnose or detect:

    * Birth defects of the spine in children
    * Bone fracture in the spine
    * Arthritis of the spine
    * Curvature of the spine
    * Tumor of the spine
    * Other spinal injury 

Thoracic CT scan can also be used during or after:

    * Myelography: An x-ray of the spinal cord and spinal nerve roots
    * Discography: An x-ray of the disk

## Normal Results

Results are normal if the thoracic spine looks normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Birth defects of the spine
    * Bone problems
    * Fracture
    * Herniated (slipped) disk
    * Infection of the spine
    * Narrowing of the spine (spinal stenosis)
    * Scoliosis
    * Tumor

## Risks

Risks of CT scans include:

    * Exposure to radiation
    * Allergic reaction to contrast dye 

CT scans expose you to more radiation than regular x-rays. Having many x-rays
or CT scans over time may increase your risk for cancer. However, the risk
from any 1 scan is small. You and your provider should weigh this risk against
the benefits of getting a correct diagnosis for a medical problem.

Some people have allergies to contrast dye.

The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. People
with an iodine allergy may have:

    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Sneezing
    * Itching or hives

In case you are allergic, your provider may give you antihistamines (such as
Benadryl) or steroids before the test.

The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. People with kidney disease or
diabetes may need to receive extra fluids after the test. This will help flush
the iodine out of the body.

Rarely, the dye may cause anaphylaxis. Notify the scanner operator right away
if you have any trouble breathing or swallowing. Scanners come with an
intercom and speakers, so the operator can hear you at all times.

## Considerations

The thoracic CT scan is good for evaluating large herniated disks. It can miss
the smaller ones. This test with a myelogram will show a better image of the
nerve roots and find smaller injuries.

## Alternative Names

CAT scan - thoracic spine; Computed axial tomography scan - thoracic spine;
Computed tomography scan - thoracic spine; CT scan - upper back

## References

Rankine JJ. Spinal trauma. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop
CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical
Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap
59.

US Food and Drug Administration website. Computed tomography (CT).
www.fda.gov/Radiation-
EmittingProducts/RadiationEmittingProductsandProcedures/MedicalImaging/MedicalX-
Rays/ucm115317.htm#4. Updated March 7, 2018. Accessed April 10, 2018.

Williams KD. Fractures, dislocations, and fracture-dislocations of the spine.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Injuries _Read more_

![Lesiones y enfermedades de la columna
vertebral](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpineInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Spine
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

