Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007350.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the lumbar spine makes cross-sectional pictures of the lower back (lumbar spine). It uses x-rays to create the images.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lumbar spine CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007350.htm

# Lumbar spine CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the lumbar spine makes cross-sectional
pictures of the lower back (lumbar spine). It uses x-rays to create the
images.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the
CT scanner.

Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
(Modern "spiral" scanners can perform the exam without stopping.)

A computer creates separate images of the spine area, called slices. These
images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. Three-
dimensional models of the spine area can be created by adding the slices
together.

You must be still during the exam. Movement can cause blurred images. You may
be told to hold your breath for short periods of time.

The scan should take only 10 to 15 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Some exams use a special dye, called contrast that is put into your body
before the test starts. Contrast helps certain areas show up better on the
x-rays.

Contrast can be given in different ways.

    * It may be given through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm.
    * It may be given as an injection into the space around the spinal cord. 

If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4
to 6 hours before the test.

Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to
contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test in order to avoid
this problem.

If you weigh more than 300 pounds (135 kilograms), find out if the CT machine
has a weight limit. Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner's working
parts.

You will be asked to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the study.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may have discomfort from lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause a slight burning feeling, a metal taste
in the mouth, and a warm flushing of the body. These feelings are normal and
go away in a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT scans rapidly makes detailed pictures of the lower back. The test may be
used to look for:

    * Birth defects of the spine in children
    * Injury in the lower spine
    * Spine problems when MRI cannot be used
    * Healing problems or scar tissue following surgery 

This test can also be used during or after an x-ray of the spinal cord and
spinal nerve roots (myelography) or an x-ray of the disk (discography).

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if no problems are seen in the lumbar region in
the images.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Degenerative changes due to age
    * Birth defects of the spine
    * Bone problems
    * Fracture
    * Lumbar disk herniation
    * Lumbar spinal stenosis
    * Spondylolisthesis
    * Healing or growth of scar tissue after surgery

## Risks

Risks for CT scans include:

    * Being exposed to radiation
    * Allergic reaction to contrast dye 
    * Birth defect if done during pregnancy

CT scans expose you to more radiation than regular x-rays. Having many x-rays
or CT scans over time may increase your risk for cancer. However, the risk
from any one scan is small. Talk to your provider about this risk and how it
weighs against the benefits of the test for your medical problem.

Some people have allergies to contrast dye. Let your provider know if you have
ever had an allergic reaction to injected contrast dye.

    * The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. If a person with an iodine allergy is given this type of contrast, nausea or vomiting, sneezing, itching, or hives may occur.
    * If you must have this type of contrast, you may get antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test.
    * The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. People with kidney disease or diabetes may need to receive extra fluids after the test to help flush the iodine out of the body.

Rarely, the dye may cause a life-threatening allergic response called
anaphylaxis. If you have any trouble breathing during the test, you should
tell the scanner operator right away. Scanners come with an intercom and
speakers, so the operator can hear you at all times.

## Considerations

The lumbar CT scan is good for evaluating large herniated disks, but it can
miss smaller ones. This test can be combined with a myelogram to get a better
image of the nerve roots and pick up smaller injuries.

## Alternative Names

CAT scan - lumbar spine; Computed axial tomography scan - lumbar spine;
Computed tomography scan - lumbar spine; CT - lower back

## References

Lauerman W, Russo M. Thoracolumbar spine disorders in the adult. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 128.

Shaw AS, Prokop M. Computed tomography. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 4.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

Williams KD. Fractures, dislocations, and fracture-dislocations of the spine.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Herniated
Disk](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerniatedDisk_thumb.jpg)Herniated Disk
_Read more_

![Spinal
Stenosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalStenosis_thumb.jpg)Spinal
Stenosis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

