Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001403.htm    
                                Description: A spinal tumor is a growth of cells (mass) in or surrounding the spinal cord.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001403.htm

# Spinal tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A spinal tumor is a growth of cells (mass) in or surrounding the spinal cord.

## Causes

Any type of tumor may occur in the spine, including:

    * LeukemiaÂ (blood cancer that starts in the white cells in the bone marrow)
    * LymphomaÂ (cancer of the lymph tissue)
    * MyelomaÂ (blood cancer that starts in the plasma cells of the bone marrow)

A small number of spinal tumors occur in the nerves of the spinal cord itself.

Tumors that start in spinal tissue are called primary spinal tumors. Tumors
that spread to the spine from some other place (metastasize) are called
secondary spinal tumors. Tumors may spread to the spine from the breast,
prostate, lung, and other areas.

The cause of primary spinal tumors is unknown. Some primary spinal tumors
occur with certain inherited gene mutations.

Spinal tumors can occur:

    * Inside the spinal cord (intramedullary)
    * In the membranes (meninges) covering the spinal cord (extramedullary - intradural)
    * Between the meninges and bones of the spine (extradural) 

Or, tumors may extend from other locations. Most spinal tumors are extradural.

As it grows, the tumor can affect the:

    * Blood vessels
    * Bones of the spine
    * Meninges
    * Nerve roots
    * Spinal cord cells 

The tumor may press on the spinal cord or nerve roots, causing damage. With
time, the damage may become permanent.

## Symptoms

The symptoms depend on the location, type of tumor, and your general health.
Tumors that have spread to the spine from another site (metastatic tumors)
often progress quickly. Primary tumors often progress slowly over weeks to
years.

Tumors in the spinal cord usually cause symptoms, sometimes over large
portions of the body. Tumors outside the spinal cord may grow for a long time
before causing nerve damage.

Symptoms may include:

    * Abnormal sensations or loss of sensation, especially in the legs (may be in the knee or ankle, with or without shooting pain down the leg)
    * Back pain that gets worse over time, is often in the middle or lower back, is usually severe and not relieved by pain medicine, gets worse when lying down or straining (such as during a cough or sneeze), and may extend to the hips or legs
    * Cold sensation of the legs, cool fingers or hands, or coolness of other areas
    * Loss of bowel control, bladder leakage
    * Muscle contractions, twitches, or spasms (fasciculations)
    * Muscle weakness (decreased muscle strength) in the legs that causes falls, makes walking difficult, and may get worse (progressive)
    * Muscle function loss

## Exams and Tests

A nervous system (neurological) examination may help pinpoint the location of
the tumor. The health care provider may also find the following during an
exam:

    * Abnormal reflexes
    * Increased muscle tone
    * Loss of pain and temperature sensation
    * Muscle weakness
    * Tenderness in the spine 

These tests may confirm spinal tumor:

    * Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination
    * Cytology (cell studies) of CSF
    * Myelogram
    * Spinal CT
    * Spine MRI
    * Spine x-ray

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce or prevent nerve damage caused by pressure
on (compression of) the spinal cord.

Treatment should be given quickly. The more quickly symptoms develop, the
sooner treatment is needed to prevent permanent injury. Any new or unexplained
back pain in a patient with cancer should be thoroughly investigated.

Treatments include:

    * Corticosteroids (dexamethasone) may be given to reduce inflammation and swelling around the spinal cord.
    * Emergency surgery may be needed to relieve compression on the spinal cord. Some tumors can be completely removed. In other cases, part of the tumor may be removed to relieve pressure on the spinal cord.
    * Radiation therapy may be used with, or instead of, surgery.
    * Chemotherapy has not been proven effective against most primary spinal tumors, but it may be recommended in some cases, depending on the type of tumor.
    * Physical therapy may be needed to improve muscle strength and the ability to function independently. 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group whose members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies depending on the tumor. Early diagnosis and treatment
usually leads to a better outcome.

Nerve damage often continues, even after surgery. Although some amount of
permanent disability is likely, early treatment may delay major disability and
death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a history of cancer and develop severe back
pain that is sudden or gets worse.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you develop new symptoms, or your symptoms get worse during the treatment of a
spinal tumor.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - spinal cord

## Images

    * ![Vertebrae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19470t.jpg)Vertebrae
    * ![Spinal tumor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2547t.jpg)Spinal tumor

## References

Deangelis LM. Tumors of the central nervous system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 189.

Moron FE, Delumpa A, Szklaruk J. Spinal tumors. In: Haaga JR, Boll DT, eds.
_CT and MRI of the Whole Body_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
30.

Sciubba DM, Baaj AA, Gokaslan ZL. Spinal cord compression. In: Niederhuber JE,
Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap
49.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Diseases _Read more_

![Lesiones y enfermedades de la columna
vertebral](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpineInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Spine
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

