Link: https://medlineplus.gov/smallpox.html    
                                Description: Smallpox is an infectious disease caused by the Variola virus. It is contagious and has killed thousands. Find a list of symptoms related to smallpox    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Smallpox

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/smallpox.html

#  Smallpox

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Smallpox is a disease caused by the Variola major virus. Some experts say that
over the centuries it has killed more people than all other infectious
diseases combined. Worldwide immunization stopped the spread of smallpox three
decades ago. The last case was reported in 1977. Two research labs still keep
small amounts of the virus. Experts fear bioterrorists could use the virus to
spread disease.

Smallpox spreads very easily from person to person. Symptoms are flu-like.
They include

    * High fever
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Backache
    * A rash with flat red sores

There is no treatment. Fluids and medicines for pain or fever can help control
symptoms. Most people recover, but some can die. Those who do recover may have
severe scars.

The U.S. stopped routine smallpox vaccinations in 1972. Military and other
high-risk groups continue to get the vaccine. The U.S. has increased its
supply of the vaccine in recent years. The vaccine makes some people sick, so
doctors save it for those at highest risk of disease.

## Start Here

    * Frequently Asked Questions and Answers on Smallpox (World Health Organization)
    * Smallpox (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Smallpox ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * What is Smallpox? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Symptoms

    * Signs and Symptoms (Smallpox) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Vaccine Basics (Smallpox) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Images

    * Smallpox (Variola) (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Smallpox ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Smallpox in the Post-Eradication Era.
    * Article: On the "Take" as a Biomarker.
    * Article: Phase 3 Efficacy Trial of Modified Vaccinia Ankara as a Vaccine...
    * Smallpox -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * World Health Organization

## Teenagers

    * Smallpox (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Smallpox (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Smallpox](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallPox.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Smallpox

## Related Health Topics

    * Biodefense and Bioterrorism

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Smallpox is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

