Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000799.htm    
                                Description: A halo brace holds your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Halo brace

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000799.htm

# Halo brace

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A halo brace holds your child's head and neck still so that bones and
ligaments in the neck can heal. Your child's head and torso will move as one
when your child is moving around. Your child can still do many activities when
wearing the halo brace.

There are two parts to a halo brace:

    1. The halo ring that goes around the forehead. The ring is attached to the head with small pins that go into the bone of your child's head.
    2. A stiff vest that is worn under clothes. Rods go down from the halo ring and connect to the shoulders of the vest. 

Talk to your health care provider about how long your child will wear the halo
brace. Children usually wear the brace for 2 to 4 months, depending on the
injury and how fast it heals. The halo brace stays on at all times. Only the
provider will take it off. Your provider will do x-rays to see if your child's
neck has healed. The halo brace can be removed in the office.

## Putting on the Halo Brace

It takes about 1 to 2 hours to put on the halo.

Your provider will numb the area where the pins will be put in. Your child
will feel pressure when the pins go in. X-rays are taken to make sure the
brace is keeping your child's neck straight. Your provider may have to
readjust it to get the best alignment of your child's neck.

Help keep your child comfortable and calm so that the provider can make a good
fit.

Wearing the halo brace should not be painful for your child. When they first
start wearing the brace, some children complain of the pin sites hurting,
their forehead hurting, or having a headache. The pain may be worse when your
child chews or yawns. Most children get used to the brace and the pain goes
away. If the pain does not go away or gets worse, the pins may need to be
adjusted. DO NOT do this yourself. Call your provider.

If the vest is not fitted well, your child might complain because of pressure
points over their shoulder or back, especially during the first few days. You
should report this to your provider. The vest can be adjusted and pads can be
put in place to avoid pressure points and skin damage.

## Taking Care of Your Child's Skin

While your child is wearing the halo brace, you will need to learn to care for
your child's skin.

PIN CARE

Clean the pin sites twice a day. Sometimes, a crust forms around the pins.
Clean the area this way to prevent infection:

    * Wash your hands with soap and water.
    * Dip a cotton swab into a skin-cleaning solution, such as hydrogen peroxide, povidone iodine, or another antiseptic your provider recommends. Use the cotton swab to wipe and scrub around one pin site. Make sure to remove any crust.
    * Use a new cotton swab with each pin.
    * You can apply antibiotic ointment daily at the point where the pin enters into the skin. 

Check the pin sites for infection. Call your provider if your child has any of
these signs of infection at a pin site:

    * Redness or swelling
    * Pus
    * Open wounds
    * Increased pain 

WASHING YOUR CHILD

DO NOT put your child in the shower or bath. The halo brace should not get
wet. Wash your child by hand following these steps:

    * Cover the edges of the vest with a dry towel. Cut holes in a plastic bag for your child's head and arms and put it over the vest.
    * Have your child sit in a chair.
    * Wash your child with a damp washcloth and mild soap. Wipe off soap with a damp towel. DO NOT use sponges that can leak water onto the brace and vest.
    * Check for redness or irritation, especially where the vest touches the skin.
    * Shampoo your child's hair over a sink or tub. If your child is small, they can lie on the kitchen counter with their head over the sink.
    * If the vest and skin under the vest ever gets wet, dry it with a hairdryer set on COOL. 

CLEAN THE INSIDE OF THE VEST

    * You cannot remove the vest to wash it.
    * Dip a long strip of surgical gauze in witch hazel and wring it out so it is just a little damp.
    * Put the gauze through from top to the bottom of the vest and slide it back and forth. This cleans the vest liner. You can also do this if your child's skin is itchy.
    * Use cornstarch baby powder around the edges of the vest to make it feel smoother next to your child's skin.

## Activities

Your child can do their usual activities like school, schoolwork, and
nonathletic club activities.

Your child cannot look down when they walk. Keep areas clear of things that
can trip your child. Some children may use a cane or walker to help keep
steady when walking.

DO NOT let your child do activities like sports, running, or bike riding.

Help your child find a comfortable way to sleep. Your child can sleep the way
they usually do, such as on their back, side, or stomach. Try a pillow or a
rolled towel under their neck to give support. Use pillows to support the
halo.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Pin sites are red, swollen, or have pus or pain
    * Your child can nod their head
    * Any parts of the brace or vest become loose
    * Your child complains of numbness, changes in feeling in their arms, hands, or legs
    * Your child cannot do their usual non-sports activities
    * Your child has a fever
    * Your child has pain where the vest might be putting too much pressure on their body, such as at the top of the shoulders 

## Alternative Names

Halo orthosis

## References

Bailey CS. Principles of orthotic management. In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB,
Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management, and
Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 39.

Lee, D, Adeoye AL, Dahdaleh, NS. Indications and complications of crown halo
vest placement: a review. _J Clin Neurosci_. 2017;40:27-33. PMID: 28209307
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28209307.

Warner WC. Pediatric cervical spine. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 43.

## Review Date 10/6/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Spine Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

