Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000313.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital for spine surgery. You probably had a problem with one or more disks. A disk is a cushion that separates the bones in your spine (vertebrae).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spine surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000313.htm

# Spine surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital for spine surgery. You probably had a problem with
one or more disks. A disk is a cushion that separates the bones in your spine
(vertebrae).

Now that you're going home, follow the surgeon's instructions on how to care
for yourself while you recover.

## When You're in the Hospital

You may have had one of these surgeries:

    * Diskectomy \-- surgery to remove all or part of your disk
    * Foraminotomy \-- surgery to widen the opening in your back where nerve roots leave your spinal column
    * Laminectomy \-- surgery to remove the lamina, two small bones that make up a vertebra, or bone spurs in your back, to take pressure off your spinal nerves or spinal column
    * Spinal fusion \-- the fusing of two bones together in your back to correct problems in your spine 

## What to Expect at Home

Recovery after diskectomy is usually quick.

After a diskectomy or foraminotomy, you may still feel pain, numbness, or
weakness along the path of the nerve that was under pressure. These symptoms
should get better in a few weeks.

Recovery after laminectomy and fusion surgery is longer. You will not be able
to return to activities as quickly. It takes at least 3 to 4 months after
surgery for bones to heal well, and healing may continue for at least a year.

If you had spinal fusion, you will probably be off work for 4 to 6 weeks if
you are young and healthy and your job is not very strenuous. It may take 4 to
6 months for older people with more extensive surgery to get back to work.

Length of recovery also depends on how bad your condition was before surgery.

## Wound Care

Your bandages (or tape) may fall off within 7 to 10 days. If not, you may
remove them yourself if your surgeon says it's OK.

You may feel numbness or pain around your incision, and it may look a little
red. Check it every day to see if it:

    * Is more red, swollen, or draining extra fluid
    * Feels warm
    * Begins to open up 

If any of these occur, call your surgeon.Â

Check with your surgeon about when you can shower again. You may be told the
following:

    * Make sure your bathroom is safe.
    * Keep the incision dry for the first 5 to 7 days.
    * The first time you shower, have someone help you.
    * Cover the incision with plastic wrap.
    * DO NOT allow water from the shower head to spray the incision. 

DO NOT smoke or use tobacco products after spine surgery. Avoiding tobacco is
even more important if you had a fusion or graft. Smoking and using tobacco
products slows the healing process.

## Activity

You will need to change how you do some things. Try not to sit for longer than
20 or 30 minutes at one time. Sleep in any position that does not cause back
pain. Your surgeon will tell you when you can resume sex.

You may be fitted for a back brace or corset to help support your back:

    * Wear the brace when you are sitting or walking.
    * You do not need to wear the brace when you are sitting on the side of the bed for a short time or use the bathroom at night. 

DO NOT bend at the waist. Instead, bend your knees and squat down to pick up
something. DO NOT lift or carry anything heavier than around 10 pounds or 4.5
kilograms (about 1 gallon or 4 liters of milk). This means you should not lift
a laundry basket, grocery bags, or small children. You should also avoid
lifting something above your head until your fusion heals.

Other activity:

    * Take only short walks for the first 2 weeks after surgery. After that, you may slowly increase how far you walk.
    * You may go up or down stairs once a day for the first 1 or 2 weeks, if it does not cause much pain or discomfort.
    * DO NOT start swimming, golfing, running, or other more strenuous activities until you see your doctor. You should also avoid vacuuming and more strenuous household cleaning. 

Your surgeon may prescribe physical therapy so that you learn how to move and
do activities in a way that prevents pain and keeps your back in a safe
position. These may include how to:

    * Get out of bed or up from a chair safely
    * Get dressed and undressed
    * Keep your back safe during other activities, including lifting and carrying items
    * Do exercises that strengthen your back muscles to keep your back stable and safe 

Your surgeon and physical therapist can help you decide whether or when you
can return to your previous job.

Riding or driving in a car:

    * DO NOT drive for the first 2 weeks after surgery. After 2 weeks, you may take short trips only if your surgeon says it's OK.
    * Travel only for short distances as a passenger in a car. If you have a long ride home from the hospital, stop every 30 to 45 minutes to stretch a bit. 

## Pain Management

Your surgeon will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled
when you go home so you have it available. Take the medicine before the pain
becomes very bad. If you will be doing an activity, take the medicine about
half an hour before you start.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon if you have any of the following:

    * Chills or a fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or higher
    * More pain where you had your surgery
    * Drainage from the wound, or the drainage is green or yellow
    * Lose feeling or have a change of feeling in your arms (if you had neck surgery) or your legs and feet (if you had lower back surgery)
    * Chest pain, shortness of breath
    * Swelling
    * Calf pain
    * Your back pain worsens and does not get better with rest and pain medicine
    * Difficulty urinating and controlling your bowel movements 

## Alternative Names

Diskectomy - discharge; Foraminotomy - discharge; Laminectomy - discharge;
Spinal fusion - discharge; Spinal microdiskectomy - discharge;
Microdecompression - discharge; Laminotomy - discharge; Disk removal -
discharge; Spine surgery - diskectomy - discharge; Intervertebral foramina -
discharge; Spine surgery - foraminotomy - discharge; Lumbar decompression -
discharge; Decompressive laminectomy - discharge; Spine surgery - laminectomy
- discharge; Vertebral interbody fusion - discharge; Posterior spinal fusion -
discharge; Arthrodesis - discharge; Anterior spinal fusion - discharge; Spine
surgery - spinal fusion - discharge

## Images

    * ![Spinal surgery - cervical - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/14038t.jpg)Spinal surgery - cervical - series

## References

Hamilton KM, Trost GR. Perioperative management. In: Steinmetz MP, Benzel EC,
eds. _Benzel's Spine Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
195.

## Read More

    * Diskectomy
    * Foraminotomy
    * Laminectomy
    * Low back pain - acute
    * Low back pain - chronic
    * Neck pain
    * Osteoarthritis
    * Sciatica
    * Spinal and epidural anesthesia
    * Spinal fusion
    * Spinal stenosis
    * Taking care of your back at home

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Herniated Disk
    * Spinal Stenosis
    * Spine Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

