Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001240.htm    
                                Description: Kyphosis is a curving of the spine that causes a bowing or rounding of the back. This leads to a hunchback or slouching posture.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kyphosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001240.htm

# Kyphosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kyphosis is a curving of the spine that causes a bowing or rounding of the
back. This leads to a hunchback or slouching posture.

## Causes

Kyphosis can occur at any age, although it is rare at birth.

A type of kyphosis that occurs in young teens is known as Scheuermann disease.
It is caused by the wedging together of several bones of the spine (vertebrae)
in a row. The cause of this condition is unknown. Kyphosis can also occur in
young teens who have cerebral palsy.

In adults, kyphosis can be caused by:

    * Degenerative diseases of the spine (such as arthritis or disk degeneration)
    * Fractures caused by osteoporosis (osteoporotic compression fractures)
    * Injury (trauma)
    * Slipping of one vertebra forward on another (spondylolisthesis)

Other causes of kyphosis include:

    * Certain hormone (endocrine) diseases
    * Connective tissue disorders
    * Infection (such as tuberculosis)
    * Muscular dystrophy (group of inherited disorders that cause muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue)
    * Neurofibromatosis (disorder in which nerve tissue tumors form)
    * Paget disease (disorder that involves abnormal bone destruction and regrowth)
    * Polio
    * Scoliosis (curving of the spine often looks like a C or S)
    * Spina bifida (birth defect in which the backbone and spinal canal don't close before birth)
    * Tumors

## Symptoms

Pain in the middle or lower back is the most common symptom. Other symptoms
may include any of the following:

    * Difficulty breathing (in severe cases)
    * Fatigue
    * Round back appearance
    * Tenderness and stiffness in the spine 

## Exams and Tests

Physical examination by a health care provider confirms the abnormal curve of
the spine. The provider will also look for any nervous system (neurological)
changes. These include weakness, paralysis, or changes in sensation below the
curve.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Spine x-ray
    * Pulmonary function tests (if kyphosis affects breathing)
    * MRI (if there may be a tumor, infection, or nervous system symptoms)
    * Bone density test (if there may be osteoporosis)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the disorder:

    * Congenital kyphosis needs corrective surgery at an early age.
    * Scheuermann disease is treated with a brace and physical therapy. Sometimes surgery is needed for large (greater than 60 degrees), painful curves.
    * Compression fractures from osteoporosis can be left alone if there are no nervous system problems or pain. But the osteoporosis needs to be treated to help prevent future fractures. For severe deformity or pain from osteoporosis, surgery is an option.
    * Kyphosis caused by infection or tumor needs prompt treatment, often with surgery and medicines.

Treatment for other types of kyphosis depends on the cause. Surgery is needed
if nervous system symptoms or constant pain develop.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Young teens with Scheuermann disease tend to do well, even if they need
surgery. The disease stops once they stop growing. If the kyphosis is due to
degenerative joint disease or multiple compression fractures, surgery is
needed to correct the defect and improve pain.

## Possible Complications

Untreated kyphosis can cause any of the following:

    * Decreased lung capacity
    * Disabling back pain
    * Nervous system symptoms, including leg weakness or paralysis
    * Round back deformity 

## Prevention

Treating and preventing osteoporosis can prevent many cases of kyphosis in
older adults. Early diagnosis and bracing for Scheuermann disease can reduce
the need for surgery, but there is no way to prevent the disease.

## Alternative Names

Scheuermann disease; Roundback; Hunchback; Postural kyphosis; Neck pain -
kyphosis

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Kyphosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9499t.jpg)Kyphosis

## References

Deeney VF, Arnold J. Orthopedics. Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 22.

Magee DJ. Thoracic (dorsal) spine. In: Magee DJ, ed. _Orthopedic Physical
Assessment_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 8.

Warner WC, Sawyer JR. Scoliosis and kyphosis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lesiones y enfermedades de la columna
vertebral](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpineInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Spine
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

