Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003278.htm    
                                Description: Lordosis is the inward curve of the lumbar spine (just above the buttocks). A small degree of lordosis is normal. Too much curving is called swayback.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lordosis - lumbar

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003278.htm

# Lordosis - lumbar

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lordosis is the inward curve of the lumbar spine (just above the buttocks). A
small degree of lordosis is normal. Too much curving is called swayback.

## Causes

Lordosis tends to make the buttocks appear more prominent. Children with
hyperlordosis will have a large space underneath the lower back when lying
face up on a hard surface.

Some children have marked lordosis, but, most often fixes itself as the child
grows. This is called benign juvenile lordosis.

Spondylolisthesis may cause lordosis. In this condition, a bone (vertebra) in
the spine slips out of the proper position onto the bone below it. You may be
born with this. It can develop after certain sports activities, such as
gymnastics. It may develop along with arthritis in the spine.

Much less common causes in children include:

    * Achondroplasia, a disorder of bone growth that causes the most common type of dwarfism
    * Muscular dystrophy
    * Other genetic conditions

## Home Care

Most of the time, lordosis is not treated if the back is flexible. It is not
likely to progress or cause problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice that your child has an
exaggerated posture or a curve in the back. Your provider must check to see if
there is a medical problem.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam. To examine the spine, your child may
have to bend forward, to the side, and to lie flat on a table. If the lordotic
curve is flexible (when the child bends forward the curve reverses itself), it
is generally not a concern. If the curve does not move, medical evaluation and
treatment are needed.

Other tests may be needed, particularly if the curve seems "fixed" (not
bendable). These may include:

    * Lumbosacral spine x-ray
    * Other tests to rule out disorders that could be causing the condition
    * MRI of the spine
    * Laboratory tests

## Alternative Names

Swayback; Arched back; Lordosis - lumbar

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Lordosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9583t.jpg)Lordosis

## References

Mistovich RJ, Spiegel DA. The spine. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 679.

Safain MG, Hwang SW, Samdani AF. Introduction to spinal deformities in
children. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 237.

Warner WC, Sawyer JR. Scoliosis and kyphosis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lesiones y enfermedades de la columna
vertebral](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpineInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Spine
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

