Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000661.htm    
                                Description: Kaposi sarcoma (KS) is a cancerous tumor of the connective tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kaposi sarcoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000661.htm

# Kaposi sarcoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kaposi sarcoma (KS) is a cancerous tumor of the connective tissue.

## Causes

KS is the result of infection with a herpesvirus known as Kaposi sarcoma-
associated herpesvirus (KSHV), or human herpesvirus 8 (HHV8). It is in the
same family as the Epstein-Barr virus, which causes mononucleosis.

KSHV is transmitted mainly through saliva. It can also be spread through
sexual contact, blood transfusion, or transplants. After it enters the body,
the virus can infect different kinds of cells, especially cells that line
blood vessels and lymphatic vessels. Like all herpesviruses, KSHV remains in
your body for the rest of your life. If your immune system becomes weakened in
the future, this virus may have the chance to reactivate, causing symptoms.

There are four types of KS based on the groups of people who are infected:

    * Classic KS: Mainly affects older men of Eastern European, Middle Eastern, and Mediterranean descent. The disease usually develops slowly.
    * Epidemic (AIDS-related) KS: Occurs most often in people who have HIV infection and have developed AIDS.
    * Endemic (African) KS: Mainly affects people of all ages in Africa.
    * Immunosuppression-associated, or transplantation-associated, KS: Occurs in people who have had an organ transplant and are medicines that suppress their immune system. 

## Symptoms

The tumors (lesions) most often appear as bluish-red or purple bumps on the
skin. They are reddish-purple because they are rich in blood vessels.

The lesions may first appear on any part of the body. They also can appear
inside the body. Lesions inside the body may bleed. Lesions in the lungs can
cause bloody sputum or shortness of breath.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, focusing on the
lesions.

The following tests may be performed to diagnose KS:

    * Bronchoscopy
    * CT scan
    * Endoscopy
    * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

How KS is treated depends on:

    * How much the immune system is suppressed (immunosuppression)
    * Number and location of the tumors
    * Symptoms 

Treatments include:

    * Antiviral therapy againstÂ HIV, since there is no specific therapy for HHV-8
    * Combination chemotherapy
    * Freezing the lesions
    * Radiation therapy

Lesions may return after treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treating KS does not improve the chances of survival from HIV/AIDS itself. The
outlook depends on the person's immune status and how much of the HIV virus is
in their blood (viral load).Â If the HIV is controlled with medicine the
lesions will often shrink away on their own.

## Possible Complications

Complications can include:

    * Cough (possibly bloody) and shortness of breath if the disease is in the lungs
    * Leg swelling that may be painful or cause infections if the disease is in the lymph nodes of the legs 

The tumors can return even after treatment. KS can be deadly for a person with
AIDS.

An aggressive form of endemic KS can spread quickly to the bones. Another form
found in African children does not affect the skin. Instead, it spreads
through the lymph nodes and vital organs, and can quickly become deadly.

## Prevention

Safer sexual practices can prevent HIV infection. This prevents HIV/AIDS and
its complications, including KS.

KS almost never occurs in people with HIV/AIDS whose disease is well
controlled.

## Alternative Names

Kaposi's sarcoma;Â HIV - Kaposi; AIDS - Kaposi

## Images

    * ![Kaposi sarcoma - lesion on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1363t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma - lesion on the foot
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2516t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma on the back
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2517t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma - close-up
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma on the thigh](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2518t.jpg)Kaposi's sarcoma on the thigh
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma - perianal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2600t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma - perianal
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma on foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9476t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma on foot

## References

Habif TP. Vascular tumors and malformations. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy._ 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Kaye KM. Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (human herpesvirus 8). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 143.

National Cancer Institute website. Kaposi sarcoma treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/soft-tissue-sarcoma/hp/kaposi-
treatment-pdq. Updated July 27, 2018. Accessed December 18, 2018.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kaposi's
Sarcoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KaposisSarcoma_thumb.jpg)Kaposi
Sarcoma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

