Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000382.htm    
                                Description: Klinefelter syndrome is a genetic condition that occurs in males when they have an extra X chromosome.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Klinefelter syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000382.htm

# Klinefelter syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Klinefelter syndrome is a genetic condition that occurs in males when they
have an extra X chromosome.

## Causes

Most people have 46 chromosomes. Chromosomes contain all of your genes and
DNA, the building blocks of the body. The 2 sex chromosomes (X and Y)
determine if you become a boy or a girl. Girls normally have 2 X chromosomes.
Boys normally have 1 X and 1 Y chromosome.

Klinefelter syndrome results when a boy is born with at least 1 extra X
chromosome. This is written as XXY.

Klinefelter syndrome occurs in about 1 out of 500 to 1,000 baby boys. Women
who get pregnant after age 35 are slightly more likely to have a boy with this
syndrome than younger women.

## Symptoms

Infertility is the most common symptom of Klinefelter syndrome.Â

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Abnormal body proportions (long legs, short trunk, shoulder equal to hip size)
    * Abnormally large breasts (gynecomastia)
    * Infertility
    * Sexual problems
    * Less than normal amount of pubic, armpit, and facial hair
    * Small, firm testicles
    * Tall height 
    * Small penis size  
  

## Exams and Tests

Klinefelter syndrome may first be diagnosed when a man comes to the health
care provider because of infertility. The following tests may be performed:

    * Karyotyping (checks the chromosomes)
    * Semen count

Blood tests will be done to check hormone levels including:

    * Estradiol, a type of estrogen
    * Follicle stimulating hormone
    * Luteinizing hormone
    * Testosterone

## Treatment

Testosterone therapy may be prescribed. This can help:

    * Grow body hair
    * Improve appearance of muscles
    * Improve concentration
    * Improve mood and self esteem
    * Increase energy and sex drive
    * Increase strength 

Most men with this syndrome are not able to get a woman pregnant. But, an
infertility specialist may be able to help. Seeing a doctor called an
endocrinologist may also be helpful.

## Support Groups

These sources can provide more information on Klinefelter syndrome:

    * Association for X and Y Chromosome Variations -- genetic.org
    * National Library of Medicine, Genetics Home Reference --Â ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/klinefelter-syndrome

## Possible Complications

Enlarged teeth with a thinning surface is very common in Klinefelter syndrome.
This is called taurodontism. This can be seen on dental x-rays.

Klinefelter syndrome also increases the risk of:

    * Attention deficient hyperactivity disorderÂ (ADHD)
    * Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Breast cancer in men
    * Depression
    * Learning disabilities, including dyslexia, which affects reading
    * A rare type of tumor called an extragonadal germ cell tumor
    * Lung disease
    * Osteoporosis
    * Varicose veins

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if your son does not develop
secondary sexual characteristics at puberty. This includes facial hair growth
and a deepening of the voice.

A genetics counselor can provide information about this condition and direct
you to support groups in your area.

## Alternative Names

47 X-X-Y syndrome; XXY syndrome; XXY trisomy; 47,XXY/46,XY; Mosaic syndrome;
Poly-X Klinefelter syndrome

## References

Allan CA, McLachlan RI. Androgen deficiency disorders. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 139.

Matsumoto AM, Bremmer WJ. Testicular disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. The chromosomal and genomic basis of
disease: disorders of the autosomes and sex chromosomes. In: Nussbaum RL,
McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson & Thompson Genetics in Medicine_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Klinefelter's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KlinefeltersSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Klinefelter's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

