Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003935.htm    
                                Description: Karyotyping is a test to examine chromosomes in a sample of cells. This test can help identify genetic problems as the cause of a disorder or disease.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Karyotyping

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003935.htm

# Karyotyping

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Karyotyping is a test to examine chromosomes in a sample of cells. This test
can help identify genetic problems as the cause of a disorder or disease.

## How the Test is Performed

The test can be performed on almost any tissue, including:

    * Amniotic fluid
    * Blood
    * Bone marrow
    * Tissue from the organ that develops during pregnancy to feed a growing baby (placenta) 

To test amniotic fluid, an amniocentesis is done.

A bone marrow biopsy is needed to take a sample of bone marrow.

The sample is placed into a special dish or tube and allowed to grow in the
laboratory. Cells are later taken from the new sample and stained. The
laboratory specialist uses a microscope to examine the size, shape, and number
of chromosomes in the cell sample. The stained sample is photographed to show
the arrangement of the chromosomes. This is called a karyotype.

Certain problems can be identified through the number or arrangement of the
chromosomes. Chromosomes contain thousands of genes that are stored in DNA,
the basic genetic material.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow the health care provider's instructions on how to prepare for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

How the test will feel depends on whether the sample procedure is having blood
drawn (venipuncture), amniocentesis, or bone marrow biopsy.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test can:

    * Count the number of chromosomes
    * Look for structural changes in chromosomes 

This test may be done:

    * On a couple that has a history of miscarriage
    * To examine any child or baby who has unusual features or developmental delays 

The bone marrow or blood test can be done to identify the Philadelphia
chromosome, which is found in 85% of people with chronic myelogenous leukemia
(CML).

The amniotic fluid test is done to check a developing baby for chromosome
problems.

Your provider may order other tests that go together with a karyotype:

    * Microarray: Looks at small changes in the chromosomes
    * Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH): Looks for small mistakes such as deletions in the chromosomes 

## Normal Results

Normal results are:

    * Females: 44 autosomes and 2 sex chromosomes (XX), written as 46, XX
    * Males: 44 autosomes and 2 sex chromosomes (XY), written as 46, XY 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to a genetic syndrome or condition, such as:

    * Down syndrome
    * Klinefelter syndrome
    * Philadelphia chromosome
    * Trisomy 18
    * Turner syndrome

Chemotherapy may cause chromosome breaks that affect normal karyotyping
results.

## Risks

Risks are related to the procedure used to obtain the sample.

In some cases, a problem may occur to the cells growing in the lab dish.
Karyotype tests should be repeated to confirm that an abnormal chromosome
problem is actually in the body of the person.

## Alternative Names

Chromosome analysis

## Images

    * ![Karyotyping](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9488t.jpg)Karyotyping

## References

Bacino CA, Lee B. Cytogenetics. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 81.

Stein CK. Applications of cytogenetics in modern pathology. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 69.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Down Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DownSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Down
Syndrome _Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![Genetic
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticTesting_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Testing _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

