Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000989.htm    
                                Description: Kawasaki disease is a rare condition that involves inflammation of the blood vessels. It occurs in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kawasaki disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000989.htm

# Kawasaki disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kawasaki disease is a rare condition that involves inflammation of the blood
vessels. It occurs in children.

## Causes

Kawasaki disease occurs most often in Japan, where it was first discovered.
The disease is seen more often in boys than in girls. Most of the children who
develop this condition are younger than age 5.

Kawasaki disease is not well understood and the cause is yet unknown. It may
be an autoimmune disorder. The problem affects the mucous membranes, lymph
nodes, walls of the blood vessels, and the heart.

## Symptoms

Kawasaki disease often begins with a feverÂ ofÂ 102Â°F (38.9Â°C)Â or higher
that does not go away. The fever is often as high as 104Â°F (40Â°C). A fever
lasting at least 5 days is a common sign of the disorder. The fever may last
for up to 2 weeks. The fever often does not come down with normal doses of
acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen.

Other symptoms often include:

    * Bloodshot or red eyes (without pus or drainage)
    * Bright red, chapped, or cracked lips
    * Red mucous membranes in the mouth
    * "Strawberry" tongue, with white coating on the tongue, or visible red bumps on the back of the tongue
    * Red, swollen palms of the hands and the soles of the feet
    * Skin rashes on the middle of the body, NOT blister-like
    * Peeling skin in the genital area, hands, and feet (mostly around the nails, palms, and soles)
    * Swollen lymph nodes in the neck (often only one lymph node is swollen)
    * Joint pain and swelling, often on both sides of the body

Additional symptoms may include:

    * Irritability
    * Diarrhea, vomiting, and abdominal pain
    * Cough and runny nose

## Exams and Tests

Tests alone cannot diagnose Kawasaki disease. Most of the time, the health
care provider will diagnose the disease when a child has most of the common
symptoms.

In some cases, a child may have a fever that lasts more than 5 days, but not
all the common symptoms of the disease. These children may be diagnosed with
atypical Kawasaki disease.

All children with fever lasting more than 5 days should be checked for
Kawasaki disease by a provider. Children with the disease need early treatment
for a good outcome.

The following tests may be done:

    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count
    * C-reactive protein (CRP)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Ferritin
    * Serum albumin
    * Serum transaminase
    * Urinalysis \- may show pus in the urine or protein in the urine
    * Throat culture for streptococcus
    * Echocardiogram
    * Electrocardiogram

Tests such as ECG and echocardiography are done to look for signs of
myocarditis, pericarditis, and inflammation of the coronary arteries.
Arthritis and aseptic meningitis can also occur.

## Treatment

Children with Kawasaki disease need hospital treatment. Treatment must be
started right away to prevent damage to the coronary arteries and heart.

Intravenous gamma globulin is the standard treatment. It is given in high
doses as a single infusion. The child's condition often gets much better
within 24 hours of treatment with IV gamma globulin.

High-dose aspirin is often given along with IV gamma globulin.

Even with standard treatment, up to 1 in 4 children may still develop problems
in their coronary arteries. In sicker children or those with signs of heart
disease, adding corticosteroids is recommended. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)
inhibitors such as infliximab (Remicade) or etanercept (Enbrel) are not
recommended for initial treatment. However, there still needs to be better
tests to tell which children will benefit from these medicines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children can recover fully when the disease is caught and treated early.
About 1 in 100 children die from heart problems caused by the disease. People
who have had Kawasaki disease should have an echocardiogram every 1 to 2 years
to screen for heart problems.

## Possible Complications

Kawasaki disease can cause inflammation of blood vessels in the arteries,
especially the coronary arteries. This can lead to aneurysm. Rarely, it can
lead to a heart attack at a young age or later in life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of Kawasaki disease develop. Cracked, red lips
and swelling and redness develop in the affected areas such as the palms and
soles of the feet. If these problems occur along with an ongoing high fever
that does not come down with acetaminophen or ibuprofen, your child should be
checked by a provider.

## Prevention

There are no known ways to prevent this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome; Infantile polyarteritis

## Images

    * ![Kawasaki disease - edema of the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2932t.jpg)Kawasaki disease - edema of the hand
    * ![Kawasaki's disease - peeling of the fingertips](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2931t.jpg)Kawasaki's disease - peeling of the fingertips

## References

Abrams JY, Belay ED, Uehara R, Maddox RA, Schonberger LB, Nakamura Y. Cardiac
complications, earlier treatment, and initial disease severity in Kawasaki
disease. _J Pediatr_. 2017;188:64-69. PMID: 28619520
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28619520.

American Academy of Pediatrics. Kawasaki disease. In: Kimberlin DW, Brady MT,
Jackson MA, Long SS, eds. _Red Book: 2018 Report of the Committee on
Infectious Diseases_. 31st ed. Itasca, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics;
2018:490.

McCrindle BW, Rowley AH, Newburger JW, et al. Diagnosis, treatment, and long-
term management of Kawasaki disease: a scientific statement for health
professionals from the American Heart Association. _Circulation_.
2017;135(17):e927-e999. PMID: 28356445 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28356445.

Raees M. Cardiology. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds.
_Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 7.

Xue LJ, Wu R, Du GL, et al. Effect and safety of TNF inhibitors in
immunoglobulin-resistant Kawasaki Disease: a meta-analysis. _Clin Rev Allergy
Immunol_. 2017;52(3):389-400. PMID: 27550227
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27550227.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kawasaki
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KawasakiDisease_thumb.jpg)Kawasaki
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

