Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000308.htm    
                                Description: Bartter syndrome is a group of rare conditions that affect the kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bartter syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000308.htm

# Bartter syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bartter syndrome is a group of rare conditions that affect the kidneys.

## Causes

There are five gene defects known to be associated with Bartter syndrome. The
condition is present at birth (congenital).

The condition is caused by a defect in the kidneys' ability to reabsorb
sodium. People affected by Bartter syndrome lose too much sodium through the
urine. This causes a rise in the level of the hormone aldosterone, and makes
the kidneys remove too much potassium from the body. This is known as
potassium wasting.

The condition also results in an abnormal acid balance in the blood called
hypokalemic alkalosis, which causes too much calcium in the urine.

## Symptoms

This disease usually occurs in childhood. Symptoms include:

    * Constipation
    * Rate of weight gain is much lower than that of other children of similar age and gender (growth failure)
    * Needing to urinate more often than usual (urinary frequency)
    * Low blood pressure
    * Kidney stones
    * Muscle cramping and weakness

## Exams and Tests

Bartter syndrome is usually suspected when a blood test finds a low level of
potassium in the blood. Unlike other forms of kidney disease, this condition
does not cause high blood pressure. There is a tendency toward low blood
pressure. Laboratory tests may show:

    * High levels of potassium, calcium, and chloride in the urine
    * High levels of the hormones renin and aldosterone in the blood
    * Low blood chloride
    * Metabolic alkalosis

These same signs and symptoms can also occur in people who take too many
diuretics (water pills) or laxatives. Urine tests can be done to rule out
other causes.

An ultrasound of the kidneys may be done.

## Treatment

Bartter syndrome is treated by eating foods rich in potassium or taking
potassium supplements.

Many people also need salt and magnesium supplements. Medicine may be needed
that blocks the kidney's ability to get rid of potassium. High doses of
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also be used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Infants who have severe growth failure may grow normally with treatment. Over
time, some people with the condition will develop kidney failure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child is:

    * Having muscle cramps
    * Not growing well
    * Urinating frequently 

## Alternative Names

Potassium wasting; Salt-wasting nephropathy

## Images

    * ![Aldosterone level test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8699t.jpg)Aldosterone level test

## References

Guay-Woodford LM. Hereditary nephropathies and developmental abnormalities of
the urinary tract. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 128.

Mount DB. Disorders of potassium imbalance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM,
Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Sreedharan R, Avner ED. Bartter and Gitelman syndromes and other inherited
tubular transport abnormalities. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 531.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

