Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000459.htm    
                                Description: Reflux nephropathy is a condition in which the kidneys are damaged by the backward flow of urine into the kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Reflux nephropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000459.htm

# Reflux nephropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Reflux nephropathy is a condition in which the kidneys are damaged by the
backward flow of urine into the kidney.

## Causes

Urine flows from each kidney through tubes called ureters and into the
bladder. When the bladder is full, it squeezes and sends the urine out through
the urethra. No urine should flow back into the ureter when the bladder is
squeezing. Each ureter has a one-way valve where it enters the bladder that
prevents urine from flowing back up the ureter.

But in some people, urine flows back up to the kidney. This is called
vesicoureteral reflux.

Over time, the kidneys may be damaged or scarred by this reflux. This is
called reflux nephropathy.

Reflux can occur in people whose ureters do not attach properly to the bladder
or whose valves do not work well. Children may be born with this problem or
may have other birth defects of the urinary system that cause reflux
nephropathy.

Reflux nephropathy can occur with other conditions that lead to a blockage of
urine flow, including:

    * Bladder outlet obstruction, such as an enlarged prostate in men
    * Bladder stones
    * Neurogenic bladder, which can occur in people with multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, diabetes, or other nervous system (neurological) conditions

Reflux nephropathy can also occur from swelling of the ureters after a kidney
transplant or from injury to the ureter.

Risk factors for reflux nephropathy include:

    * Abnormalities of the urinary tract
    * Personal or family history of vesicoureteral reflux
    * Repeat urinary tract infections

## Symptoms

Some people have no symptoms of reflux nephropathy. The problem may be found
when kidney tests are done for other reasons.

If symptoms do occur, they might be similar to those of:

    * Chronic kidney failure
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Urinary tract infection

## Exams and Tests

Reflux nephropathy is often found when a child is checked for repeated bladder
infections. If vesicoureteral reflux is discovered, the child's siblings may
also be checked, because reflux can run in families.

Blood pressure may be high, and there may be signs and symptoms of long-term
(chronic) kidney disease.

Blood and urine tests will be done, and may include:

    * BUN \-- blood
    * Creatinine \-- blood
    * Creatinine clearance \-- urine and blood
    * Urinalysis or 24-hour urine studies
    * Urine culture

Imaging tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Bladder ultrasound
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Kidney ultrasound
    * Radionuclide cystogram
    * Retrograde pyelogram
    * Voiding cystourethrogram

## Treatment

Vesicoureteral reflux is separated into five different grades. Simple or mild
reflux often falls into grade I or II. The severity of the reflux and amount
of damage to the kidney help determine treatment.

Simple, uncomplicated vesicoureteral reflux (called primary reflux) can be
treated with:

    * Antibiotics taken every day to prevent urinary tract infections
    * Careful monitoring of kidney function
    * Repeated urine cultures
    * Yearly ultrasound of the kidneys 

Controlling blood pressure is the most important way to slow kidney damage.
The health care provider may prescribe medicines to control high blood
pressure. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin
receptor blockers (ARBs) are often used.

Surgery is usually only used in children who have not responded to medical
therapy.

More severe vesicoureteral reflux may need surgery, especially in children who
do not respond to medical therapy. Surgery to place the ureter back into the
bladder (ureteral reimplantation) can stop reflux nephropathy in some cases.

More severe reflux may need reconstructive surgery. This type of surgery may
reduce the number and severity of urinary tract infections.

If needed, people will be treated for chronic kidney disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome varies, depending on the severity of the reflux. Some people with
reflux nephropathy will not lose kidney function over time, even though their
kidneys are damaged. However, kidney damage may be permanent. If only one
kidney is involved, the other kidney should keep working normally.

Reflux nephropathy may cause kidney failure in children and adults.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from this condition or its treatment include:

    * Blockage of the ureter after surgery
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Chronic or repeat urinary tract infections
    * Chronic kidney failure if both kidneys are involved (can progress to end-stage kidney disease)
    * Kidney infection
    * High blood pressure
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Persistent reflux
    * Scarring of the kidneys

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Have symptoms of reflux nephropathy
    * Have other new symptoms
    * Are producing less urine than normal

## Prevention

Quickly treating conditions that cause reflux of urine into the kidney may
prevent reflux nephropathy.

## Alternative Names

Chronic atrophic pyelonephritis; Vesicoureteric reflux; Nephropathy - reflux;
Ureteral reflux

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Voiding cystourethrogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1144t.jpg)Voiding cystourethrogram
    * ![Vesicoureteral reflux](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19502t.jpg)Vesicoureteral reflux

## References

Bakkaloglu SA, Schaefer F. Diseases of the kidney and urinary tract in
children. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds.
_Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 74.

Mathews R, Mattoo TK. Primary vesicoureteral reflux and reflux nephropathy.
In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 61.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

