Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000484.htm    
                                Description: Glomerulonephritis is a type of kidney disease in which the part of your kidneys that helps filter waste and fluids from the blood is damaged.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glomerulonephritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000484.htm

# Glomerulonephritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glomerulonephritis is a type of kidney disease in which the part of your
kidneys that helps filter waste and fluids from the blood is damaged.

## Causes

The filtering unit of the kidney is called the glomerulus. Each kidney has
thousands of glomeruli. The glomeruli help the body get rid of harmful
substances.

Glomerulonephritis may be caused by problems with the body's immune system.
Often, the exact cause of this condition is unknown.

Damage to the glomeruli causes blood and protein to be lost in the urine.

The condition may develop quickly, and kidney function is lost within weeks or
months. This is called rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis.

Some people with chronic glomerulonephritis have no history of kidney disease.

The following may increase your risk for this condition:

    * Blood or lymphatic system disorders
    * Exposure to hydrocarbon solvents
    * History of cancer
    * Infections such as strep infections, viruses, heart infections, or abscesses

Many conditions cause or increase the risk for glomerulonephritis, including:

    * Amyloidosis (disorder in which a protein called amyloid builds up in the organs and tissues)
    * Disorder that affects the glomerular basement membrane, the part of the kidney that helps filter waste and extra fluid from the blood 
    * Blood vessel diseases, such as vasculitis or polyarteritis
    * Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (scarring of the glomeruli) 
    * Anti-glomerular basement membrane disease (disorder in which the immune system attacks the glomeruli) 
    * Analgesic nephropathy syndromeÂ (kidney disease due to heavy use of pain relievers, especially NSAIDs)
    * Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpuraÂ (disease that involves purple spots on the skin, joint pain, gastrointestinal problems and glomerulonephritis) 
    * IgA nephropathy (disorder in which antibodies called IgA build up in kidney tissue) 
    * Lupus nephritis (kidney complication of lupus) 
    * Membranoproliferative GN (form of glomerulonephritis due to abnormal buildup of antibodies in the kidneys) 

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of glomerulonephritis are:

    * Blood in the urine (dark, rust-colored, or brown urine)
    * Foamy urine (due to excess protein in the urine)
    * Swelling (edema) of the face, eyes, ankles, feet, legs, or abdomen

Symptoms may also include the following:

    * Abdominal pain 
    * Blood in the vomit or stools
    * Cough and shortness of breath
    * Diarrhea
    * Excessive urination 
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling, fatigue, and loss of appetite
    * Joint or muscle aches
    * Nosebleed 

The symptoms of chronic kidney disease may develop over time.

Chronic kidney failure symptoms may gradually develop.

## Exams and Tests

Because symptoms may develop slowly, the disorder may be discovered when you
have an abnormal urinalysis during a routine physical or examination for
another condition.

Signs of glomerulonephritis can include:

    * Anemia
    * High blood pressure
    * Signs of reduced kidney function

A kidney biopsy confirms the diagnosis.

Later, signs of chronic kidney disease may be seen, including:

    * Nerve inflammation (polyneuropathy)
    * Signs of fluid overload, including abnormal heart and lung sounds
    * Swelling (edema)

Imaging tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Kidney ultrasound
    * Chest x-ray
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)

Urinalysis and other urine tests include:

    * Creatinine clearance
    * Examination of the urine under a microscope
    * Urine total protein
    * Uric acid in the urine
    * Urine concentration test
    * Urine creatinine
    * Urine protein
    * Urine RBC
    * Urine specific gravity
    * Urine osmolality

This disease may also cause abnormal results on the following blood tests:

    * Albumin
    * Antiglomerular basement membrane antibody test
    * Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCAs)
    * Antinuclear antibodies
    * BUN and creatinine
    * Complement levels

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the disorder, and the type and severity of
symptoms. Controlling high blood pressure is usually the most important part
of treatment.

Medicines that may be prescribed include:

    * Blood pressure drugs, most often angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers
    * Corticosteroids
    * Drugs that suppress the immune system

A procedure called plasmapheresis may sometimes be used for glomerulonephritis
caused by immune problems. The fluid part of the blood that contains
antibodies is removed and replaced with intravenous fluids or donated plasma
(that does not contain antibodies). Removing antibodies may reduce
inflammation in the kidney tissues.

You may need to limit your intake of sodium, fluids, protein, and other
substances.

People with this condition should be closely watched for signs of kidney
failure. Dialysis or a kidney transplant may eventually be needed.

## Support Groups

You can often ease the stress of illness by joining support groups where
members share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Glomerulonephritis may be temporary and reversible, or it may get worse.
Progressive glomerulonephritis may lead to:

    * Chronic kidney failure 
    * Reduced kidney function
    * End-stage kidney disease

If you have nephrotic syndrome and it can be controlled, you may also be able
to control other symptoms. If it cannot be controlled, you may develop end-
stage kidney disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have a condition that increases your risk for glomerulonephritis
    * You develop symptoms of glomerulonephritis

## Prevention

Most cases of glomerulonephritis can't be prevented. Some cases may be
prevented by avoiding or limiting exposure to organic solvents, mercury, and
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).

## Alternative Names

Glomerulonephritis - chronic; Chronic nephritis; Glomerular disease;
Necrotizing glomerulonephritis; Glomerulonephritis - crescentic; Crescentic
glomerulonephritis; Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Radhakrishnan J, Appel GB, D'Agati VD. Secondary glomerular disease. In: Yu
ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 32.

Reich HN, Cattran DC. Treatment of glomerulonephritis. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM,
Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 33.

Saha MK, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

