Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001272.htm    
                                Description: Acute arterial occlusion of the kidney is a sudden, severe blockage of the artery that supplies blood to the kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute arterial occlusion - kidney

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001272.htm

# Acute arterial occlusion - kidney

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute arterial occlusion of the kidney is a sudden, severe blockage of the
artery that supplies blood to the kidney.

## Causes

The kidneys need a good blood supply. The main artery to the kidney is called
the renal artery. Reduced blood flow through the renal artery can hurt kidney
function. A complete blockage of blood flow to the kidney can often result in
permanent kidney failure.

Acute arterial occlusion of the renal artery can occur after injury or trauma
to the abdomen, side, or back. Blood clots that travel through the bloodstream
(emboli) can lodge in the renal artery. Pieces of plaque from the walls of the
arteries can come loose (on their own or during a procedure). This debris can
block the main kidney artery or one of the smaller vessels.

The risk of renal artery blockages increases in people who have certain heart
disorders, which make them likely to form blood clots. These include mitral
stenosis and atrial fibrillation.

A narrowing of the renal artery is called renal artery stenosis. This
condition increases the risk of a sudden blockage.

## Symptoms

You may not have symptoms when one kidney does not function because the second
kidney can filter the blood. However, high blood pressure (hypertension) may
come on suddenly and be difficult to control.

If your other kidney is not working fully, blockage of the renal artery may
cause symptoms of acute kidney failure. Other symptoms of acute arterial
occlusion of the renal artery include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Abrupt decrease in urine output
    * Back pain
    * Blood in the urine
    * Flank pain or pain in the side
    * Symptoms of high blood pressure such as headache, change in vision, and swelling 

Note: There may be no pain. Pain, if it is present, most often develops
suddenly.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will not be able to identify the problem with just an
exam unless you have developed kidney failure.

Tests you may need include:

    * Duplex Doppler ultrasound exam of the renal arteries to test blood flow
    * MRI of the kidney arteries, which can show a lack of blood flow to the affected kidney
    * Renal arteriography shows the exact location of the blockage
    * Ultrasound of the kidney to check kidney size 

## Treatment

Often, people do not need treatment. Blood clots may get better on their own
over time.

You may have treatment to open the artery if the blockage is discovered
quickly or it is affecting the only working kidney. Treatment to open the
artery may include:

    * Clot-dissolving medicines (thrombolytics)
    * Medicines that prevent the blood from clotting (anticoagulants), such as warfarin (Coumadin)
    * Surgical repair of the renal artery
    * Insertion of a tube (catheter) into the renal artery to open the blockage

You may need temporary dialysis to treat acute kidney failure. Medicines to
lower cholesterol may be needed if the blockage is due to clots from plaque
buildup in the arteries.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Damage caused by arterial occlusion may go away. However, in most cases, it is
permanent.

If only one kidney is affected, the healthy kidney may take over filtering the
blood and producing urine. If you have only one working kidney, arterial
occlusion leads to acute kidney failure. This can develop into chronic kidney
failure.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute kidney failure
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Malignant hypertension

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You stop producing urine
    * You feel sudden, severe pain in the back, flank, or abdomen.

Get emergency medical help right away if you have symptoms of arterial
occlusion and have only one working kidney.

## Prevention

In many cases, the disorder is not preventable. The most important way to
reduce your risk is to stop smoking.

People at risk for developing blood clots may need to take anti-clotting
medicines. Taking steps to control diseases related to atherosclerosis
(hardening of the arteries) may reduce your risk.

## Alternative Names

Acute renal arterial thrombosis; Renal artery embolism; Acute renal artery
occlusion; Embolism - renal artery

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Kidney blood supply](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8817t.jpg)Kidney blood supply

## References

DuBose TD, Santos RM. Vascular disorders of the kidney. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 125.

Myers DJ, Myers SI. System complications: renal. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA,
eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 44.

Ruggenenti P, Cravedi P, Remuzzi G. Microvascular and macrovascular diseases
of the kidney. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds.
_Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 35.

Watson RS, Cogbill TH. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:1041-1047.

## Review Date 4/15/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

