Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000497.htm    
                                Description: Proximal renal tubular acidosis is a disease that occurs when the kidneys don    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Proximal renal tubular acidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000497.htm

# Proximal renal tubular acidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Proximal renal tubular acidosis is a disease that occurs when the kidneys
don't properly remove acids from the blood into the urine. As a result, too
much acid remains in the blood (called acidosis).

## Causes

When the body performs its normal functions, it produces acid. If this acid is
not removed or neutralized, the blood will become too acidic. This can lead to
electrolyte imbalances in the blood. It can also cause problems with normal
function of some cells.

The kidneys help control the body's acid level by removing acid from the blood
and excreting it into the urine. Acidic substances in the body are neutralized
by alkaline substances, mainly bicarbonate.

Proximal renal tubular acidosis (type II RTA) occurs when bicarbonate is not
properly reabsorbed by the kidney's filtering system.

Type II RTA is less common than type I RTA. Type I is also called distal renal
tubular acidosis. Type II most often occurs during infancy and may go away by
itself.

Causes of type II RTA include:

    * Cystinosis (body is unable to break down the substance cysteine)
    * Drugs such as ifosfamide (a chemotherapy drug), certain antibiotics that are no longer used much (tetracycline), or acetazolamide
    * Fanconi syndrome, a disorder of the kidney tubes in which certain substances normally absorbed into the bloodstream by the kidneys are released into the urine instead
    * Inherited fructose intolerance, a disorder in which there is a lack of the protein needed to break down the fruit sugar fructose
    * Multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer
    * Primary hyperparathyroidism, a disorder in which the parathyroid glands in the neck produce too much parathyroid hormone
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome, an autoimmune disorder in which the glands that produce tears and saliva are destroyed
    * Wilson disease, an inherited disorder in which there is too much copper in the body's tissues
    * Vitamin D deficiency

## Symptoms

Symptoms of proximal renal tubular acidosis include any of the following:

    * Confusion or decreased alertness
    * Dehydration
    * Fatigue
    * Increased breathing rate
    * OsteomalaciaÂ (softening of the bones)
    * Muscle pain
    * Weakness

Other symptoms can include:

    * Decreased urine output
    * Increased heart rate or irregular heartbeat
    * Muscle cramps
    * Pain in the bones, back, flank, or abdomen
    * Skeletal deformities

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Blood chemistry
    * Blood pH level
    * Urine pH and acid-loading test
    * Urinalysis

## Treatment

The goal is to restore normal acid level and electrolyte balance in the body.
This will help correct bone disorders and reduce the risk of osteomalacia and
osteopenia in adults.

Some adults may need no treatment. All children need alkaline medicine such as
potassium citrate and sodium bicarbonate. This is medicine that helps correct
the acidic condition of the body. The medicine helps prevent bone disease
caused by too much acid, such as rickets, and to allow normal growth.

Thiazide diuretics are also frequently used to preserve bicarbonate in the
body.Â

The underlying cause of proximal renal tubular necrosis should be corrected if
it can be found.

Vitamin D and calcium supplements may be needed to help reduce skeletal
deformities resulting from osteomalacia.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Although the underlying cause of proximal renal tubular acidosis may go away
by itself, the effects and complications can be permanent or life threatening.
Treatment is usually successful.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of proximal renal tubular acidosis.

Get medical help right away if any of the following emergency symptoms
develop:

    * Decreased alertness or disorientation
    * Decreased consciousness
    * Seizures

## Prevention

Most of the disorders that cause proximal renal tubular acidosis are not
preventable.

## Alternative Names

Renal tubular acidosis - proximal; Type II RTA; RTA - proximal; Renal tubular
acidosis type II

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Bose A, Monk RD, Bushinsky DA. Kidney stones. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

Seifter J L. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Sreedharan R, Avner ED. Renal tubular acidosis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 529.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

