Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000506.htm    
                                Description: Hydronephrosis is swelling of one kidney due to a backup of urine. This problem may occur in one kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydronephrosis of one kidney

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000506.htm

# Hydronephrosis of one kidney

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydronephrosis is swelling of one kidney due to a backup of urine. This
problem may occur in one kidney.

## Causes

Hydronephrosis (kidney swelling) occurs as the result of a disease. It is not
a disease itself. Conditions that may lead to hydronephrosis include:

    * Blockage of a ureter due to scarring caused by prior infections, surgeries, or radiation treatments
    * Blockage from an enlarged uterus during pregnancy
    * Birth defects of the urinary system
    * Back flow of urine from bladder to kidney, called vesicoureteral reflux (may occur as a birth defect or due to an enlarged prostate or narrowing of the urethra)
    * Kidney stones
    * Cancers or tumors that occur in the ureter, bladder, pelvis or abdomen 
    * Problems with the nerves that supply the bladder

The blockage and swelling of the kidney may occur suddenly or may develop
slowly.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

    * Flank pain
    * Abdominal mass, especially in children
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Urinary tract infection (UTI)
    * Fever
    * Painful urination (dysuria)
    * Increased urinary frequency
    * Increased urinary urgency 

In some cases, there may be no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The condition is found on an imaging test such as:

    * MRI of the abdomen
    * CT scan of the kidneys or abdomen
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Kidney scan
    * Ultrasound of the kidneys or abdomen 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the kidney swelling. Treatment may include:

    * Placing a stent (tube) through the bladder and ureter to allow urine to flow from the kidney into the bladder 
    * Placing a tube into the kidney through the skin, to allow the blocked urine to drain out of the body into a drainage bag
    * Antibiotics for infections
    * Surgery to correct the blockage or reflux
    * Removal of any stone that is causing blockage 

People who have only one kidney, who have immune system disorders such as
diabetes or HIV, or who have had a transplant will need treatment right away.

People who have long-term hydronephrosis may need antibiotics to reduce the
risk of UTI.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Loss of kidney function, UTI, and pain may occur if the condition is left
untreated.

## Possible Complications

If hydronephrosis is not treated, the affected kidney may be permanently
damaged. Kidney failure is rare if the other kidney is working normally.
However, kidney failure will occur if there is only one functioning kidney.
UTI and pain may also occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have ongoing or severe flank pain, or
fever, or if you think you may have hydronephrosis.

## Prevention

Prevention of the disorders that cause this condition will prevent it from
occurring.

## Alternative Names

Hydronephrosis; Chronic hydronephrosis; Acute hydronephrosis; Urinary
obstruction; Unilateral hydronephrosis; Nephrolithiasis - hydronephrosis;
Kidney stone - hydronephrosis; Renal calculi - hydronephrosis; Ureteral
calculi - hydronephrosis; Vesicoureteral reflux - hydronephrosis; Obstructive
uropathy - hydronephrosis

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

FrÃ¸kiaer J. Urinary tract obstruction. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

Kachroo N, Leavitt DA. Hydronephrosis. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018: 643-644.e1.

Zeidel ML. Obstructive uropathy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

