Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000475.htm    
                                Description: Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is a kidney disorder that involves inflammation and changes to kidney cells. It may lead to kidney failure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000475.htm

# Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is a kidney disorder that involves
inflammation and changes to kidney cells. It may lead to kidney failure.

## Causes

Glomerulonephritis is an inflammation of the glomeruli. The glomeruli of the
kidney help filter wastes and fluids from the blood to form urine.

Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) is a form of
glomerulonephritis caused by an abnormal immune response. Deposits of
antibodies build up in a part of the kidneys called the glomerular basement
membrane. This membrane helps filter wastes and extra fluids from the blood.

Damage to this membrane affects the kidney's ability to create urine normally.
It may allow blood and protein to leak into the urine. If enough protein leaks
into the urine, fluidÂ may leak out of the blood vessels into body tissues,
leading to swelling (edema). Nitrogen waste products may also build up in the
blood (azotemia).

The 2 forms of this disease are MPGN I and MPGN II.

Most people with the disease have type I. MPGN II is much less common. It also
tends to get worse faster than MPGN I.

Causes of MPGN may include:

    * Autoimmune diseases (systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, SjÃ¶gren syndrome, sarcoidosis) 
    * Cancer (leukemia, lymphoma)
    * Infections (hepatitis B, hepatitis C, endocarditis, malaria)

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Changes in mental status such as decreased alertness or decreased concentration
    * Cloudy urine
    * Dark urine (smoke, cola, or tea colored)
    * Decrease in urine volume
    * Swelling of any part of the body

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. The
provider may find that you have signs of too much fluid in the body, such as:

    * Swelling, often in the legs
    * Abnormal sounds when listening to your heart and lungs with a stethoscope
    * You may have high blood pressure

The following tests help confirm the diagnosis:

    * BUN and creatinine blood test
    * Blood complement levels
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine protein
    * Kidney biopsy (to confirm membranoproliferative GN I or II)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the symptoms. The goals of treatment are to reduce
symptoms, prevent complications, and slow the progression of the disorder.

You may need a change in diet. This may include limiting sodium, fluids, or
protein to help control high blood pressure, swelling, and the buildup of
waste products in the blood.

Medicines that may be prescribed include:

    * Blood pressure medicines
    * Dipyridamole, with or without aspirin
    * Diuretics
    * Medicines to suppress the immune system, such as cyclophosphamide
    * Steroids

Treatment is more effective in children than in adults. Dialysis or kidney
transplant may eventually be needed to manage kidney failure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disorder often slowly gets worse and eventually results inÂ chronic kidney
failure.

Half of people with this condition develop long-term (chronic) kidney failure
within 10 years. This is more likely in those who have higher levels of
protein in their urine.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from this disease include:

    * Acute nephritic syndrome
    * Acute renal failure
    * Chronic kidney disease

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of this condition
    * Your symptoms get worse or do not go away
    * You develop new symptoms, including decreased urine output

## Prevention

Preventing infections such as hepatitis or managing diseases such as lupus may
help prevent MPGN.

## Alternative Names

Membranoproliferative GN I; Membranoproliferative GN II; Mesangiocapillary
glomerulonephritis; Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis; Lobular GN;
Glomerulonephritis - membranoproliferative; MPGN type I; MPGN type II

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Roberts ISD. Kidney diseases. In: Cross SS, ed. _Underwood's Pathology: A
Clinical Approach_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

Saha MK, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

Sethi S, De Vriese AS, Fervenza FC. Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis
and cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M,
Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

