Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001065.htm    
                                Description: Injury to the kidney and ureter is damage to the organs of the upper urinary tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Injury - kidney and ureter

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001065.htm

# Injury - kidney and ureter

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Injury to the kidney and ureter is damage to the organs of the upper urinary
tract.

## Causes

The kidneys are located in the flank at either side of the spine. The flank is
the back of the upper abdomen. They are protected by the spine, lower rib
cage, and strong muscles of the back. This location protects the kidneys from
many outside forces. The kidneys are also surrounded by a layer of fat. The
fat helps to cushion them.

The kidneys have a large blood supply. Any injury to them, can lead to severe
bleeding. The many layers of padding help prevent kidney injury.

Kidneys may be injured by damage to the blood vessels that supply or drain
them, including:

    * Aneurysm
    * Arterial blockage
    * Arteriovenous fistula
    * Renal vein thrombosis (clotting)
    * Trauma 

Kidney injuries may also be caused by:

    * Angiomyolipoma, a noncancerous tumor, if the tumor is very large
    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Bladder outlet obstruction
    * Cancer of the kidney, pelvic organs (ovaries or uterus in women), or colon
    * Diabetes
    * Buildup of body waste products such as uric acid (which can occur with gout or treatment of bone marrow, lymph node, or other disorders)
    * Exposure to toxic substances such as lead, cleaning products, solvents, fuels, certain antibiotics, or long-term use of high-dose pain medicines (analgesic nephropathy)
    * High blood pressure and other medical conditions that affect the kidneys
    * Inflammation caused by immune responses to medicines, infection, or other disorders
    * Medical procedures such as kidney biopsy, or nephrostomy tube placement
    * Ureteropelvic junction obstruction
    * Ureteral obstruction
    * Kidney stones 

The ureters are the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder.
Ureteral injuries may be caused by:

    * Complications from medical procedures
    * Diseases such as retroperitoneal fibrosis, retroperitoneal sarcomas, or cancers that spread to the lymph nodes near the ureters
    * Kidney stone disease
    * Radiation to the belly area
    * Trauma 

## Symptoms

Emergency symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain and swelling
    * Severe flank pain and back pain
    * Blood in the urine
    * Drowsiness, decreased alertness, including coma
    * Decreased urine output or inability to urinate
    * Fever
    * Increased heart rate
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Skin that is pale or cool to touch
    * Sweating 

Long-term (chronic) symptoms may include:

    * Malnutrition
    * High blood pressure
    * Kidney failure 

If only one kidney is affected and the other kidney is healthy, you may not
have any symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. Let them know about any recent
illness or if you have come into contact with toxic substances.

The exam may show:

    * Excess bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Extreme tenderness over the kidney
    * Shock, including rapid heart rate or falling blood pressure
    * Signs of kidney failure 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal MRI
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Angiography of the kidney artery or vein
    * Blood electrolytes
    * Blood tests to look for toxic substances
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Kidney function tests
    * Retrograde pyelogram
    * Kidney x-ray
    * Renal scan
    * Urinalysis
    * Urodynamic study
    * Voiding cystourethrogram

## Treatment

The goals are to treat emergency symptoms and prevent or treat complications.
You may need to stay in a hospital.

Treatments for a kidney injury may include:

    * Bed rest for 1 to 2 weeks or until bleeding is reduced
    * Close observation and treatment for symptoms of kidney failure
    * Diet changes
    * Medicines to treat damage caused by toxic substances or illnesses (for example, chelation therapy for lead poisoning or allopurinol to lower uric acid in the blood due to gout)
    * Pain medicines
    * Eliminating medicines or exposure to substances that may have injured the kidney
    * Drugs such as corticosteroids or immunosuppressants if the injury was caused by inflammation
    * Treatment of acute kidney failure

Sometimes, surgery is needed. This may include:

    * Repairing a "fractured" or torn kidney, torn blood vessels, torn ureter, or similar injury
    * Removing the entire kidney (nephrectomy), draining the space around the kidney, or stopping the bleeding via arterial catheterization (angioembolization)
    * Placing a stent
    * Removing blockage or relieving obstruction

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the cause and severity of the injury.

Sometimes, the kidney starts working properly again. Sometimes, kidney failure
occurs.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Sudden kidney failure, one or both kidneys
    * Bleeding (may be minor or severe)
    * Bruising of the kidney
    * Chronic kidney failure, one or both kidneys
    * Infection (peritonitis, sepsis)
    * Pain
    * Renal artery stenosis
    * Renal hypertension
    * Shock
    * Urinary tract infection

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of an injury to the kidney or ureter.
Call the provider if you have a history of:

    * Exposure to toxic substances
    * Illness
    * Infection
    * Physical injury

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have decreased urine output after a kidney injury. This may be a symptom
of kidney failure.

## Prevention

You can help prevent injury to the kidneys and ureter by taking these steps:

    * Be aware of substances that can cause lead poisoning. These include old paints, vapors from working with lead-coated metals, and alcohol distilled in recycled car radiators.
    * Take all your medicines properly, including ones you buy without a prescription (over-the-counter).
    * Treating gout and other illnesses as instructed by your provider.
    * Use safety equipment during work and play.
    * Use cleaning products, solvents, and fuels as directed. Make sure the area is well-ventilated, because the fumes may also be toxic.
    * Wear seat belts and drive safely.

## Alternative Names

Kidney damage; Toxic injury of the kidney; Kidney injury; Traumatic injury of
the kidney; Fractured kidney; Inflammatory injury of the kidney; Bruised
kidney; Ureteral injury; Pre-renal failure - injury; Post-renal failure -
injury; Kidney obstruction - injury

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Molitoris BA. Acute kidney injury. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 120.

Santucci RA, Chen ML. Upper urinary tract trauma. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 50.

Sharfuddin AA, Weisbord SD, Palevsky PM, Molitoris BA. Acute kidney injury.
In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Ureteral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UreteralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ureteral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

