Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000493.htm    
                                Description: Distal renal tubular acidosis is a disease that occurs when the kidneys do not properly remove acids from the blood into the urine. As a result, too much acid remains in the blood (called acidosis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Distal renal tubular acidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000493.htm

# Distal renal tubular acidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Distal renal tubular acidosis is a disease that occurs when the kidneys do not
properly remove acids from the blood into the urine. As a result, too much
acid remains in the blood (called acidosis).

## Causes

When the body performs its normal functions, it produces acid. If this acid is
not removed or neutralized, the blood becomes too acidic. This can lead to
electrolyte imbalances in the blood. It can also cause problems with normal
function of some cells.

The kidneys help control the body's acid level by removing acid from the blood
and excreting it into the urine.

Distal renal tubular acidosis (type I RTA) is caused by a defect in the kidney
tubes that causes acid to build up in the blood.

Type I RTA is caused by a variety of conditions, including:

    * Amyloidosis, a buildup of abnormal protein, called amyloid, in the tissues and organs
    * Fabry disease, an abnormal buildup in the body of a certain type of fatty substance
    * High level of calcium in the blood
    * Sickle cell disease, red blood cells that are normally shaped like a disk take on a sickle or crescent shape
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome, an autoimmune disorder in which the glands that produce tears and saliva are destroyed
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus, an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue
    * Wilson disease, an inherited disorder in which there is too much copper in the body's tissues
    * Use of certain medicines, such as amphotericin B, lithium, and analgesics

## Symptoms

Symptoms of distal renal tubular acidosis include any of the following:

    * Confusion or decreased alertness
    * Fatigue
    * Impaired growth in children
    * Increased breathing rate
    * Kidney stones
    * Nephrocalcinosis (too much calcium deposited in the kidneys)
    * Osteomalacia (softening of the bones)
    * Muscle weakness 

Other symptomsÂ may include:

    * Bone pain
    * Decreased urine output
    * Increased heart rate or irregular heartbeat
    * Muscle cramps
    * Pain in the back, flank, or abdomen
    * Skeletal abnormalities

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Blood chemistry
    * Urine pHÂ 
    * Acid-load test
    * Bicarbonate infusion test  

    * Urinalysis

Calcium deposits in the kidneys and kidney stones may be seen on:

    * X-rays
    * Ultrasound
    * CT scan

## Treatment

The goal is to restore normal acid level and electrolyte balance in the body.
This will help correct bone disorders and reduce calcium buildup in the
kidneys (nephrocalcinosis) and kidney stones.

The underlying cause of distal renal tubular acidosis should be corrected if
it can be identified.

Medicines that may be prescribed include potassium citrate, sodium
bicarbonate, and thiazide diuretics. These are alkaline medicines that help
correct the acidic condition of the body. Sodium bicarbonate may correct the
loss of potassium and calcium.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disorder must be treated to reduce its effects and complications, which
can be permanent or life threatening. Most cases get better with treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of distal renal tubular acidosis.

Get medical help right away if you develop emergency symptoms such as:

    * Decreased consciousness
    * Seizures
    * Severe decrease in alertness or orientation

## Prevention

There is no prevention for this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Renal tubular acidosis - distal; Renal tubular acidosis type I; Type I RTA;
RTA - distal; Classical RTA

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Bose A, Monk RD, Bushinsky DA. Kidney stones. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

Seifter J L. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Sreedharan R, Avner ED. Renal tubular acidosis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 529.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

