Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000507.htm    
                                Description: Obstructive uropathy is a condition in which the flow of urine is blocked. This causes the urine to back up and injure one or both kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Obstructive uropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000507.htm

# Obstructive uropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obstructive uropathy is a condition in which the flow of urine is blocked.
This causes the urine to back up and injure one or both kidneys.

## Causes

Obstructive uropathy occurs when urine cannot drain through the urinary tract.
Urine backs up into the kidney and causes it to become swollen. This condition
is known as hydronephrosis.

Obstructive uropathy can affect one or both kidneys. It can occur suddenly, or
be a long-term problem.

Common causes of obstructive uropathy include:

    * Bladder stones
    * Kidney stones
    * Benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate)
    * Bladder or ureteral cancer
    * Colon cancer
    * Cervical cancer
    * Uterine cancer
    * Any cancer that spreads
    * Scar tissue that occurs inside or outside of the ureters
    * Scar tissue that occurs inside the urethra
    * Problems with the nerves that supply the bladder

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on whether the problem starts slowly or suddenly, and if one
or both kidneys are involved. Symptoms may include:

    * Mild to severe pain in the flank. The pain may be felt on one or both sides.
    * Fever.
    * Nausea or vomiting.
    * Weight gain or swelling (edema) of kidney.

You may also have problems passing urine, such as:

    * Urge to urinate often 
    * Decrease in the force of urine stream
    * Dribbling of urine
    * Not feeling as if the bladder is emptied
    * Need to urinate more often at night
    * Decreased amount of urine
    * Leakage of urine (incontinence)
    * Blood in urine

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will order imaging studies to detect obstructive
uropathy. Commonly used tests include:

    * Ultrasound of abdomen or pelvis 
    * CT scan of abdomen or pelvis 
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Voiding cystourethrogram 
    * Renal nuclear scan
    * MRI

## Treatment

Stents or drains placed in the ureter or in a part of the kidney called the
renal pelvis may provide short-term relief of symptoms.

Nephrostomy tubes, which drain urine from the kidneys through the back, may be
used to bypass the blockage.

A Foley catheter, placed through the urethra into the bladder, may also help
urine flow.

Short-term relief from the blockage is possible without surgery. However, the
cause of the blockage must be removed and the urinary system repaired. Surgery
may be needed for long-term relief from the problem.

The kidney may need to be removed if the blockage causes severe loss of
function.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the blockage comes on suddenly, kidney damage is less likely if the problem
is detected and repaired right away. Often, the damage to the kidneys goes
away. Long-term damage to the kidneys may occur if the blockage has been
present for a long time.

If only one kidney is damaged, chronic kidney problems are less likely.

You may need dialysis or a kidney transplant if there is damage to both
kidneys and they do not function, even after the blockageÂ is repaired.

## Possible Complications

Obstructive uropathy can cause permanent and severe damage to the kidneys,
resulting in kidney failure.

If the problem was caused by a blockage in the bladder, the bladder may have
long-term damage. This may lead to problems emptying the bladder or leakage of
urine.

Obstructive uropathy is linked to higher chances of urinary tract infections.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of obstructive uropathy.

## Prevention

Obstructive uropathy can be prevented by treating disorders that can cause it.

## Alternative Names

Uropathy - obstructive

## Images

    * ![Bladder catheterization - female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female
    * ![Bladder catheterization - male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1066t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - male
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Meldrum KK. Pathophysiology of urinary tract obstruction. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 48.

Zeidel ML. Obstructive uropathy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

