Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001179.htm    
                                Description: High potassium level is a problem in which the amount of potassium in the blood is higher than normal. The medical name of this condition is hyperkalemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High potassium level

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001179.htm

# High potassium level

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

High potassium level is a problem in which the amount of potassium in the
blood is higher than normal. The medical name of this condition is
hyperkalemia.

## Causes

Potassium is needed for cells to function properly. You get potassium through
food. The kidneys remove excess potassium through the urine to keep a proper
balance of this mineral in the body.

If your kidneys are not working well, they may not be able to remove the
proper amount of potassium. As a result, potassium can build up in the blood.
This buildup can also be due to:

    * Addison disease -- Disease in which the adrenal glands do not make enough hormones
    * Burns over large areas of the body
    * Certain blood pressure lowering drugs, most often angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers
    * Damage to muscle and other cells from certain street drugs, alcohol abuse, untreated seizures, surgery, crush injuries and falls, certain chemotherapy, or certain infections
    * Disorders that cause blood cells to burst (hemolytic anemia)
    * Severe bleeding from the stomach or intestines
    * Taking extra potassium, such as salt substitutes or supplements
    * Tumors

## Symptoms

There are often no symptoms with a high level of potassium. When symptoms do
occur, they may include:

    * NauseaÂ or vomiting
    * Difficulty breathing  

    * Slow, weak, or irregular pulse
    * Chest pain  

    * Palpitations  

    * Sudden collapse, when the heartbeat gets too slow or even stops 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Potassium level 

Your provider will likely check your blood potassium level and do kidney blood
tests on a regular basis if you:

    * Have been prescribed extra potassium
    * Have long-term (chronic) kidney disease
    * Take medicines to treat heart disease or high blood pressure
    * Use salt substitutes 

## Treatment

You will need emergency treatment if your potassium level is very high, or if
you have danger signs, such as changes in an ECG.

Emergency treatment may include:

    * Calcium given into your veins (IV) to treat the muscle and heart effects of high potassium levels
    * Glucose and insulin given into your veins (IV) to help lower potassium levels long enough to correct the cause
    * Kidney dialysis if your kidney function is poor
    * Medicines that help remove potassium from the intestines before it is absorbed
    * Sodium bicarbonate if the problem is caused by acidosis
    * Some water pills (diuretics)

Changes in your diet can help both prevent and treat high potassium levels.
You may be asked to:

    * Limit or avoid asparagus, avocados, potatoes, tomatoes or tomato sauce, winter squash, pumpkin, and cooked spinach
    * Limit or avoid oranges and orange juice, nectarines, kiwifruit, raisins, or other dried fruit, bananas, cantaloupe, honeydew, prunes, and nectarines
    * Avoid taking salt substitutes if you are asked to eat a low-salt diet

Your provider may make the following changes to your medicines:

    * Reduce or stop potassium supplements
    * Stop or change the doses of medicines you are taking, such as ones for heart disease and high blood pressure
    * Take a certain type of water pill to reduce potassium and fluid levels if you have chronic kidney failure

Follow your provider's directions when taking your medicines:

    * DO NOT stop or start taking medicines without first talking to your provider
    * Take your medicines on time
    * Tell your provider about any other medicines, vitamins, or supplements you are taking

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cause is known, such as too much potassium in the diet, the outlook is
good once the problem is corrected. In severe cases or those with ongoing risk
factors, high potassium will likely recur.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Heart suddenly stops beating (cardiac arrest)
    * Weakness
    * Kidney failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have vomiting, palpitations, weakness, or
difficulty breathing, or if you're taking a potassium supplement and have
symptoms of high potassium.

## Alternative Names

Hyperkalemia; Potassium - high; High blood potassium

## Images

    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Mount DB. Disorders of potassium balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Seifter JL. Potassium disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Potassium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Potassium_thumb.jpg)Potassium
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

