Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000492.htm    
                                Description: Nephrocalcinosis is a disorder in which there is too much calcium deposited in the kidneys. It is common in premature babies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nephrocalcinosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000492.htm

# Nephrocalcinosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nephrocalcinosis is a disorder in which there is too much calcium deposited in
the kidneys. It is common in premature babies.

## Causes

Any disorder that leads to high levels of calcium in the blood or urine may
lead to nephrocalcinosis. In this disorder, calcium deposits in the kidney
tissue itself. Most of the time, both kidneys are affected.

Nephrocalcinosis is related to, but not the same as, kidney stones
(nephrolithiasis).

Conditions that can cause nephrocalcinosis include:

    * Alport syndome
    * Bartter syndrome
    * Chronic glomerulonephritis
    * Familial hypomagnesemia
    * Medullary sponge kidney
    * Primary hyperoxaluria
    * Renal transplant rejection
    * Renal tubular acidosisÂ (RTA)
    * Renal cortical necrosis

Other possible causes of nephrocalcinosis include:

    * Ethylene glycol toxicity
    * Hypercalcemia (excess calcium in the blood) due to hyperparathyroidism
    * Use of certain medicines, such as acetazolamide, amphotericin B, and triamterene
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Tuberculosis of the kidney and infections related to AIDS
    * Vitamin D toxicity

## Symptoms

Most of the time, there are no early symptoms of nephrocalcinosis beyond those
of the condition causing the problem.

People who also have kidney stones may have:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Fever and chills
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Severe pain in the belly area, sides of the back (flank), groin, or testicles

Later symptoms related to nephrocalcinosis may be associated with long-term
(chronic) kidney failure.

## Exams and Tests

Nephrocalcinosis may be discovered when symptoms of renal insufficiency,
kidney failure, obstructive uropathy, or urinary tract stones develop.

Imaging tests can help diagnose this condition. Tests that may be done
include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Ultrasound of the kidney 

Other tests that may be done to diagnose and determine the severity of
associated disorders include:

    * Blood tests to check levels of calcium, phosphate, uric acid, and parathyroid hormone
    * Urinalysis to see crystals and check for red blood cells
    * 24-hour urine collection to measure acidity and levels of calcium, sodium, uric acid, oxalate, and citrate

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms and prevent more calcium from
building up in the kidneys.

Treatment will involve methods to reduce abnormal levels of calcium,
phosphate, and oxalate in the blood and urine. Options include making changes
in your diet and taking medicines and supplements.

If you take medicine that causes calcium loss, your health care provider will
tell you to stop taking it. Never stop taking any medicine before talking to
your provider.

Other symptoms, including kidney stones, should be treated as appropriate.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

What to expect depends on the complications and cause of the disorder.

Proper treatment may help prevent further deposits in the kidneys. In most
cases, there is no way to remove deposits that have already formed. Many
deposits of calcium in the kidneys do NOT always mean severe damage to the
kidneys.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute kidney failure
    * Long-term (chronic) kidney failure
    * Kidney stones
    * Obstructive uropathy (acute or chronic, unilateral or bilateral)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you know you have a disorder that causes high levels of
calcium in your blood and urine. Also call if you develop symptoms of
nephrocalcinosis.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of disorders that lead to nephrocalcinosis, including RTA,
may help prevent it from developing.Â Drinking plenty of water to keep the
kidneys flushed and draining will help prevent or decrease stone formation as
well.

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Bushinsky DA. Kidney stones. In: Melmed S, Auchus, RJ, Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ,
Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology._ 14th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 32.

Chen W, Monk RD, Bushinsky DA. Nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 57.

Tublin M, Levine D, Thurston W, Wilson SR. The kidney and urinary tract. In:
Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic Ultrasound._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 9.

Vogt BA, Springel T. The kidney and urinary tract of the neonate. In: Martin
RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martinâs Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 93.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

