Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000472.htm    
                                Description: Membranous nephropathy is a kidney disorder that leads to changes and inflammation of the structures inside the kidney that help filter wastes and fluids. The inflammation may lead to problems with kidney    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Membranous nephropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000472.htm

# Membranous nephropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Membranous nephropathy is a kidney disorder that leads to changes and
inflammation of the structures inside the kidney that help filter wastes and
fluids. The inflammation may lead to problems with kidney function.

## Causes

Membranous nephropathy is caused by the thickening of a part of the glomerular
basement membrane. The glomerular basement membrane is a part of the kidneys
that helps filter waste and extra fluid from the blood. The exact reason for
this thickening is not known.

The thickened glomerular membrane does not work normally. As a result, large
amounts of protein are lost in the urine.

This condition is one of the most common causes of nephrotic syndrome. This is
a group of symptoms that include protein in the urine, low blood protein
level, high cholesterol levels, high triglyceride levels, and swelling.
Membranous nephropathy may be a primary kidney disease, or it may be
associated with other conditions.

The following increase your risk for this condition:

    * Cancers, especially lung and colon cancer
    * Exposure to toxins, including gold and mercury
    * Infections, including hepatitis B, malaria, syphilis, and endocarditis
    * Medicines, including penicillamine, trimethadione, and skin-lightening creams
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, Graves disease, and other autoimmune disorders

The disorder occurs at any age, but is more common after age 40.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often begin slowly over time, and may include:

    * Edema (swelling) in any area of the body
    * Fatigue
    * Foamy appearance of urine (due to large amounts of protein)
    * Poor appetite
    * Urination, excessive at night
    * Weight gain

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show swelling (edema).

A urinalysis may reveal a large amount of protein in the urine. There may also
be some blood in the urine. The glomerular filtration rate (the "speed" at
which the kidneys cleanse the blood) is often nearly normal.

Other tests may be done to see how well the kidneys are working and how the
body is adapting to the kidney problem. These include:

    * Albumin \- blood and urine
    * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
    * Creatinine - blood
    * Creatinine clearance
    * Lipid panel
    * Protein - blood and urine

A kidney biopsy confirms the diagnosis.

The following tests can help determine the cause of membranous nephropathy:

    * Antinuclear antibodies test
    * Anti-double-strand DNA, if the antinuclear antibodies test is positive
    * Blood tests to check for hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and syphilis
    * Complement levels
    * Cryoglobulin test

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms and slow the progression of the
disease.

Controlling blood pressure is the most important way to delay kidney damage.
The goal is to keep blood pressure at or below 130/80 mm Hg.

High blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels should be treated to reduce the
risk for atherosclerosis. However, a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet is often
not as helpful for people with membranous nephropathy.

Medicines used to treat membranous nephropathy include:

    * Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) to lower blood pressure
    * Corticosteroids and other drugs that suppress the immune system
    * Medicines (most often statins) to reduce cholesterol and triglyceride levels
    * Water pills (diuretics) to reduce swelling
    * Blood thinners to reduce the risk for blood clots in the lungs and legs

Low-protein diets may be helpful. A moderate-protein diet (1 gram [gm] of
protein per kilogram [kg] of body weight per day) may be suggested.

Vitamin D may need to be replaced if nephrotic syndrome is long-term (chronic)
and does not respond to therapy.

This disease increases the risk for blood clots in the lungs and legs. Blood
thinners may be prescribed to prevent these complications.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook varies, depending on the amount of protein loss. There may be
symptom-free periods and occasional flare-ups. Sometimes, the condition goes
away, with or without therapy.

Most people with this disease will have kidney damageÂ and some people will
developÂ end-stage renal disease.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from this disease include:

    * Chronic renal failure
    * Deep venous thrombosis
    * End-stage renal disease
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Pulmonary embolism
    * Renal vein thrombosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if:

    * You have symptoms of membranous nephropathy
    * Your symptoms get worse or don't go away
    * You develop new symptoms
    * You have decreased urine output

## Prevention

Quickly treating disorders and avoiding substances that can cause membranous
nephropathy may reduce your risk.

## Alternative Names

Membranous glomerulonephritis; Membranous GN; Extramembranous
glomerulonephritis; Glomerulonephritis - membranous; MGN

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Radhakrishnan J, Appel GB. Glomerular disorders and nephrotic syndromes. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

Saha MK, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

Salant DJ, Cattran DC. Membranous nephropathy. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 20.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

