Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003001.htm    
                                Description: Kidney removal, or nephrectomy, is surgery to remove all or part of a kidney. It may involve:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kidney removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003001.htm

# Kidney removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kidney removal, or nephrectomy, is surgery to remove all or part of a kidney.
It may involve:

    * Part of one kidney removed (partial nephrectomy).
    * All of one kidney removed (simple nephrectomy).
    * Removal of one entire kidney, surrounding fat, and the adrenal gland (radical nephrectomy). In these cases, neighboring lymph nodes are sometimes removed.

## Description

This surgery is done in the hospital while you are asleep and pain-free
(general anesthesia). The procedure can take 3 or more hours.

Simple nephrectomy or open kidney removal:

    * You will be lying on your side. Your surgeon will make an incision (cut) up to 12 inchesÂ or 30 centimeters (cm) long. This cut will be on your side, just below the ribs or right over the lowest ribs.
    * Muscle, fat, and tissue are cut and moved. Your surgeon may need to remove a rib to do the procedure.
    * The tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder (ureter) and blood vessels are cut away from the kidney. The kidney is then removed.
    * Sometimes, just a part of the kidney may be removed (partial nephrectomy).
    * The cut is then closed with stitches or staples. 

Radical nephrectomy or open kidney removal:

    * Your surgeon will make a cut about 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30 cm) long. This cut will be on the front of your belly, just below your ribs. It may also be done through your side.
    * Muscle, fat, and tissue are cut and moved. The tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder (ureter) and blood vessels are cut away from the kidney. The kidney is then removed.
    * Your surgeon will also take out the surrounding fat, and sometimes the adrenal gland and some lymph nodes.
    * The cut is then closed with stitches or staples. 

Laparoscopic kidney removal:

    * Your surgeon will make 3 or 4 small cuts, most often no more than 1 inch (2.5 cm) each, in your belly and side. The surgeon will use tiny probes and a camera to do the surgery.
    * Towards the end of the procedure, your surgeon will make one of the cuts larger (about 4 inches or 10 cm) to take out the kidney.
    * The surgeon will cut the ureter, place a bag around the kidney, and pull it through the larger cut.
    * This surgery may take longer than an open kidney removal. However, most people recover faster and feel less pain after this type ofÂ surgeryÂ when compared to the pain and recovery period following open surgery. 

Sometimes, your surgeon may make a cut in a different place than described
above.

Some hospitals and medical centers are doing this surgery using robotic tools.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Kidney removal may be recommended for:

    * Someone donating a kidney
    * Birth defects
    * Kidney cancerÂ or suspected kidney cancer
    * A kidney damaged by infection, kidney stones, or other problems
    * To help control high blood pressure in someone who has problems with the blood supply to their kidney
    * Very bad injury (trauma) to the kidney that cannot be repaired

## Risks

Risks of any surgery are:

    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Breathing problems
    * Infection, including in the surgical wound, lungs (pneumonia), bladder, or kidney
    * Blood loss
    * Heart attack or stroke during surgery
    * Reactions to medicines

Risks of this procedure are:

    * Injury to other organs or structures
    * Kidney failure in the remaining kidney
    * After one kidney is removed, your other kidney may not work as well for awhile
    * Hernia of your surgical wound

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider:

    * If you could be pregnant
    * What drugs you are taking, even drugs, supplements, vitamins,Â or herbs you bought without a prescription

During the days before the surgery:

    * You will have blood samples taken in case you need a blood transfusion.
    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), Clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and other blood thinners.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * Do not smoke. This will help you to recover quicker.

On the day of the surgery:

    * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before the surgery.
    * Take the drugs as you have been told, with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

You will stay in the hospital for 1 to 7 days, depending on the type of
surgery you have. During a hospital stay, you may:

    * Be asked to sit on the side of the bed and walk on the same day of your surgery
    * Have a tube, or catheter, that comes from your bladder
    * Have a drain that comes out through your surgical cut
    * Not be able to eat the first 1 to 3 days, and then you will begin with liquids
    * Be encouraged to do breathing exercises
    * Wear special stockings, compression boots, or both to prevent blood clots
    * Receive shots under your skin to prevent blood clots
    * Receive pain medicine into your veins or pills 

Recovering from open surgery may be painful because of where the surgical cut
is located. Recovery after a laparoscopic procedure is most often quicker,
with less pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is most often good when a single kidney is removed. If both
kidneys are removed, or the remaining kidney does not work well enough, you
will need hemodialysis or a kidney transplant.

## Alternative Names

Nephrectomy; Simple nephrectomy; Radical nephrectomy; Open nephrectomy;
Laparoscopic nephrectomy; Partial nephrectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Kidney removal - discharge
    * Preventing falls
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Kidneys](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8819t.jpg)Kidneys
    * ![Kidney removal \(nephrectomy\) - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10167t.jpg)Kidney removal (nephrectomy) - series

## References

Babaian KN, Delacroix SE, Wood CG, Jonasch E. Kidney cancer. In: Skorecki K,
Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

Olumi AF, Preston MA, Blute ML. Open surgery of the kidney. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 60.

Schwartz MJ, Rais-Bahrami S, Kavoussi LR. Laparoscopic and robotic surgery of
the kidney. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 61.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

