Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000488.htm    
                                Description: Renal papillary necrosis is a disorder of the kidneys in which all or part of the renal papillae die. The renal papillae are the areas where the openings of the collecting ducts enter the kidney and where    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal papillary necrosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000488.htm

# Renal papillary necrosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Renal papillary necrosis is a disorder of the kidneys in which all or part of
the renal papillae die. The renal papillae are the areas where the openings of
the collecting ducts enter the kidney and where urine flows into the ureters.

## Causes

Renal papillary necrosis often occurs with analgesic nephropathy. This is
damage to one or both kidneys caused by overexposure to pain medicines. But,
other conditions can also cause renal papillary necrosis, including:

    * Diabetic nephropathy
    * Kidney infection (pyelonephritis)
    * Kidney transplant rejection
    * Sickle cell anemia, a common cause of renal papillary necrosis in children
    * Urinary tract blockage

## Symptoms

Symptoms of renal papillary necrosis may include:

    * Back pain or flank pain
    * Bloody, cloudy, or dark urine
    * Tissue pieces in the urine

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

    * Fever and chills
    * Painful urination
    * Needing to urinate more often than usual (frequent urination) or a sudden, strong urge to urinate (urgency)
    * Difficulty starting or maintaining a urine stream (urinary hesitancy)
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinating large amounts
    * Urinating often at night

## Exams and Tests

The area over the affected kidney (in the flank) may feel tender during an
exam. There may be a history of urinary tract infections. There may be signs
of blocked urine flow or kidney failure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Urine test
    * Blood tests
    * Ultrasound, CT, or other imaging tests of the kidneys

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for renal papillary necrosis. Treatment depends
on the cause. For example, if analgesic nephropathy is the cause, your doctor
will recommend that you stop using the medicine that is causing it. This may
allow the kidney to heal over time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does, depends on what is causing the condition. If the cause
can be controlled, the condition may go away on its own. Sometimes, people
with this condition develop kidney failure and will need dialysis or a kidney
transplant.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from renal papillary necrosis include:

    * Kidney infection
    * Kidney stones
    * Kidney cancer, especially in people who take a lot of pain medicines

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if:

    * You have bloody urine
    * You develop other symptoms of renal papillary necrosis, especially after taking over-the-counter pain medicines

## Prevention

Controlling diabetes or sickle cell anemia may reduce your risk. To prevent
renal papillary necrosis from analgesic nephropathy,Â follow your provider's
instructions when using medicines, including over-the-counter pain relievers.
Do not take more than the recommended dose without asking your provider.

## Alternative Names

Necrosis - renal papillae; Renal medullary necrosis

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Chen W, Monk RD, Bushinsky DA. Nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 57.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

Schaeffer AJ, Matulewicz RS, Klumpp DJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

