Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000495.htm    
                                Description: Acute nephritic syndrome is a group of symptoms that occur with some disorders that cause swelling and inflammation of the glomeruli in the kidney, orÂ glomerulonephritis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute nephritic syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000495.htm

# Acute nephritic syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute nephritic syndrome is a group of symptoms that occur with some disorders
that cause swelling and inflammation of the glomeruli in the kidney, orÂ
glomerulonephritis.

## Causes

Acute nephritic syndrome is often caused by an immune response triggered by an
infection or other disease.

Common causes in children and adolescents include:

    * Hemolytic uremic syndrome (disorder that occurs when an infection in the digestive system produces toxic substances that destroy red blood cells and cause kidney injury)
    * Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura (disease that involves purple spots on the skin, joint pain, gastrointestinal problems and glomerulonephritis)
    * IgA nephropathy (disorder in which antibodies called IgA build up in kidney tissue)
    * Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (kidney disorder that occurs after infection with certain strains of streptococcus bacteria) 

Common causes in adults include:

    * Abdominal abscesses
    * Goodpasture syndrome (disorder in which the immune system attacks the glomeruli)
    * Hepatitis B or C
    * Endocarditis (inflammation of the inside lining of the heart chambers and heart valves caused by a bacterial or fungal infection)
    * Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (disorder that involves inflammation and changes to kidney cells)
    * Rapidly progressive (crescentic) glomerulonephritis (a form of glomerulonephritis that leads to a rapid loss of kidney function)
    * Lupus nephritis (kidney complication of systemic lupus erythematosus)
    * Vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels)
    * Viral diseases such as mononucleosis, measles, mumps

The inflammation affects the function of the glomerulus. This is the part of
the kidney that filters blood to make urine and remove waste. As a result,
blood and protein appear in the urine, and excess fluid builds up in the body.

Swelling of the body occurs when the blood loses a protein called albumin.
Albumin keeps fluid in the blood vessels. When it is lost, fluid collects in
the body tissues.

Blood loss from the damaged kidney structures leads to blood in the urine.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of nephritic syndrome are:

    * Blood in the urine (urine appears dark, tea-colored, or cloudy)
    * Decreased urine output (little or no urine may be produced)
    * Swelling of the face, eye socket, legs, arms, hands, feet, abdomen, or other areas
    * High blood pressure

Other symptoms that may occur include:

    * Blurred vision, usually from burst blood vessels in the retina of the eye
    * Cough containing mucus or pink, frothy material from fluid buildup in the lungs
    * Shortness of breath, from fluid buildup in the lungs
    * General ill feeling (malaise), drowsiness, confusion, aches and pains, headache

Symptoms of acute kidney failure or long-term (chronic) kidney disease may
develop.

## Exams and Tests

During an examination, your health care provider may find the following signs:

    * High blood pressure
    * Abnormal heart and lung sounds
    * Signs of excess fluid (edema) such as swelling in the legs, arms, face, and belly
    * Enlarged liver
    * Enlarged veins in the neck 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood electrolytes
    * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
    * Creatinine
    * Creatinine clearance
    * Potassium test
    * Protein in the urine
    * Urinalysis

A kidney biopsy will show inflammation of the glomeruli, which may indicate
the cause of the condition.

Tests to find the cause of acute nephritic syndrome may include:

    * ANA titer for lupus
    * Antiglomerular basement membrane antibody
    * Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody for vasculitis (ANCA)
    * Blood culture
    * Culture of the throat or skin
    * Serum complement (C3 and C4) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce inflammation in the kidney and control high
blood pressure. You may need to stay in a hospital to be diagnosed and
treated.

Your provider may recommend:

    * Bedrest until you feel better with treatment
    * A diet that limits salt, fluids, and potassium
    * Medicines to control high blood pressure, reduce inflammation, or to remove fluid from your body
    * Kidney dialysis, if needed

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the disease that is causing the nephritis. When the
condition improves, symptoms of fluid retention (such as swelling and cough)
and high blood pressure may go away in 1 or 2 weeks. Urine tests may take
months to return to normal.

Children tend to do better than adults and usually recover completely. Only
rarely do they develop complications or progress to chronic glomerulonephritis
and chronic kidney disease.

Adults do not recover as well or as quickly as children. Although it is
unusual for the disease to return, in some adults, the disease does return and
they will develop end-stage kidney disease and may need dialysis or a kidney
transplant.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of acute nephritic syndrome.

## Prevention

Often, the disorder cannot be prevented, although treatment of illness and
infection may help to reduce the risk.

## Alternative Names

Glomerulonephritis - acute; Acute glomerulonephritis; Nephritis syndrome -
acute

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Radhakrishnan J, Appel GB. Glomerular disorders and nephrotic syndromes. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

Saha M, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

