Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000466.htm    
                                Description: IgA nephropathy is a kidney disorder in which antibodies called IgA build up in kidney tissue.Â Nephropathy is damage, disease, or other problems with the kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

IgA nephropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000466.htm

# IgA nephropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

IgA nephropathy is a kidney disorder in which antibodies called IgA build up
in kidney tissue.Â Nephropathy is damage, disease, or other problems with the
kidney.

IgA nephropathyÂ is also called Berger disease.

## Causes

IgA is a protein, called an antibody, that helps the body fight infections.
IgA nephropathy occurs when too much of this protein is deposited in the
kidneys. IgA builds up inside the small blood vessels of the kidney.
Structures in the kidney called glomeruli become inflamed and damaged.

The disorder can appear suddenly (acute), or get worse slowly over many years
(chronic glomerulonephritis).

Risk factors include:

    * A personal or family history of IgA nephropathy or Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura, a form of vasculitis that affects many parts of the body
    * White or Asian ethnicity

IgA nephropathy can occur in people of all ages, but it most often affects
males in their teens to late 30s.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms for many years.

When there are symptoms, they may include:

    * Bloody urine that starts during or soon after a respiratory infection
    * Repeated episodes of dark or bloody urine
    * Swelling of the hands and feet
    * Symptoms of chronic kidney disease

## Exams and Tests

IgA nephropathy is most often discovered when a person with no other symptoms
of kidney problems has one or more episodes of dark or bloody urine.

There are no specific changes seen during a physical examination. Sometimes,
the blood pressure may be high or there may be swelling of the body.

Tests include:

    * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test to measure kidney function
    * Creatinine blood test to measure kidney function
    * Kidney biopsy to confirm the diagnosis
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine immunoelectrophoresis

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms and prevent or delay chronic
renal failure.

The treatment may include:

    * Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) to control high blood pressure and swelling (edema)
    * Corticosteroids, other drugs that suppress the immune system
    * Fish oil
    * Medicines to lower cholesterol

Salt and fluids may be restricted to control swelling. A low-to-moderate
protein diet may be recommended in some cases.

Eventually, many people must be treated for chronic kidney disease and may
need dialysis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

IgA nephropathy gets worse slowly. In many cases, it does not get worse at
all. Your condition is more likely to get worse if you have:

    * High blood pressure
    * Large amounts of protein in the urine
    * Increased BUN or creatinine levels

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have bloody urine or if you are
producing less urine than usual.

## Alternative Names

Nephropathy - IgA; Berger disease

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Feehally J, Floege J. Immunoglobulin A nephropathy and IgA vasculitis (Henoch-
SchÃ¶nlein purpura). In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds.
_Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 23.

Saha MK, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

