Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003831.htm    
                                Description: A renal perfusion scintiscan is a nuclear medicine test. It uses a small amount of a radioactive substance to create an image of the kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal perfusion scintiscan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003831.htm

# Renal perfusion scintiscan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A renal perfusion scintiscan is a nuclear medicine test. It uses a small
amount of a radioactive substance to create an image of the kidneys.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to take a blood pressure medicine called an ACE inhibitor.
The drug may be taken by mouth, or given through a vein (IV). The medicine
makes the test more accurate.

You will lie down on the scanner table shortly after taking the medicine. The
health care provider will inject a small amount of radioactive material
(radioisotope) into one of your veins. Images of your kidneys are taken as the
radioactive material flows through the arteries in the area. You will need to
remain still for the entire test. The scan takes about 30 minutes.

About 10 minutes after you receive the radioactive material, you will be given
a diuretic ("water pill") through a vein. This medicine also helps make the
test more accurate.

You can return to normal activities right after the test. You should drink
plenty of fluids to help remove the radioactive material from your body. The
test will make you urinate more frequently for several hours after the test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked to drink plenty of water before the test.

If you are currently taking an ACE inhibitor for high blood pressure, you may
be asked to stop taking your medicine before the exam. Always talk to your
provider before you stop any of your medicines.

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown. Remove all jewelry and metallic
objects before the scan.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a small amount of pain when the needle is inserted.

You must remain still during the scan. You will be told when you need to
change positions.

There may be some discomfort as your bladder fills with urine during the exam.
Tell the person conducting the exam if you must urinate before the scan is
complete.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test evaluates blood flow to the kidneys. It is used to diagnose narrowing
of the arteries that supply the kidneys. This is a condition called renal
artery stenosis. Significant renal artery stenosis may be a cause of high
blood pressure and kidney problems.

## Normal Results

Blood flow to the kidneys appears normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal findings on the scan may be a sign of renal artery stenosis. A
similar study that does not use an ACE inhibitor can be done to confirm the
diagnosis.

## Risks

If you are pregnant or nursing, your provider may want to postpone the test.
There are certain risks involved with ACE inhibitors. Pregnant women should
not take these medicines.

The amount of radioactivity in the injection is very small. Nearly all
radioactivity is gone from the body within 24 hours.

Reactions to the materials used during this test are rare, but may include
rash, swelling, or anaphylaxis.

Risks of a needle stick are slight, but include infection and bleeding.

## Considerations

This test may be less accurate in people who already have kidney disease. Talk
to your provider to determine if this is the right test for you. Alternatives
to this test are an MRI or CT angiogram.

## Alternative Names

Renal perfusion scintigraphy; Radionuclide renal perfusion scan; Perfusion
scintiscan - renal; Scintiscan - renal perfusion

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Intravenous pyelogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9481t.jpg)Intravenous pyelogram

## References

Rottenberg G, Andi AC. Renal transplantation: imaging. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2015:chap 37.

Textor SC. Renovascular hypertension and ischemic nephropathy. In: Skorecki K,
Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chronic Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChronicKidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Chronic
Kidney Disease _Read more_

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

