Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003602.htm    
                                Description: Fractional excretion of sodium is the amount of salt (sodium) that leaves the body through urine compared to the amount filtered and reabsorbed by the kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fractional excretion of sodium

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003602.htm

# Fractional excretion of sodium

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fractional excretion of sodium is the amount of salt (sodium) that leaves the
body through urine compared to the amount filtered and reabsorbed by the
kidney.

Fractional excretion of sodium (FENa) is not a test. Instead it is a
calculation based on the concentrations of sodium and creatinine in the blood
and urine. Urine and blood chemistry tests are needed to perform this
calculation.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood and urine samples are collected at the same time and sent to a lab.
There, they are examined for salt (sodium) and creatinine levels. Creatinine
is a chemical waste product of creatine. Creatine is a chemical made by the
body and is used to supply energy mainly to muscles.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Eat your normal foods with a normal amount of salt, unless otherwise
instructed by your health care provider.

If needed, you may be told to temporarily stop medicines that interfere with
test results. For example, some diuretic medicines (water pills) can affect
test results.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is usually done for people who are very ill with acute kidney
disease. The test helps determine if the drop in urine production is due to
reduced blood flow to the kidney or to kidney damage itself.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A meaningful interpretation of the test can be made only when your urine
volume has dropped to less than 500 mL/day.

FENa of lower than 1% indicates decreased blood flow to the kidney. This can
occur with kidney damage due to dehydration or heart failure.

FENa higher than 1% suggests damage to the kidney itself.

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins 

There are no risks with the urine sample.

## Alternative Names

FE sodium; FENa

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Excretion fraction of filtered sodium-blood and
urine. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2013:497-498.

Parikh CR, Koyner JL. Biomarkers in acute and chronic kidney diseases. In:
Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

Polonsky TS, Bakris GL. Alterations in kidney function associated with heart
failure. In: Mann DL, Felker GM, eds. _Heart Failure: A Companion to
Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

