Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000480.htm    
                                Description: Atheroembolic renal disease (AERD) occurs when small particles made of hardened cholesterol and fat spread to the small blood vessels of the kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atheroembolic renal disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000480.htm

# Atheroembolic renal disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Atheroembolic renal disease (AERD) occurs when small particles made of
hardened cholesterol and fat spread to the small blood vessels of the kidneys.

## Causes

AERD is linked to atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a common disorder of the
arteries. It occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build up in
the walls of arteries and form a hard substance called plaque.

In AERD, cholesterol crystals break off from the plaque lining the arteries.
These crystals move into the bloodstream. Once in circulation, the crystals
get stuck in tiny blood vessels called arterioles. There, they reduce blood
flow to tissues and cause swelling (inflammation) and tissue damage that can
harm the kidneys or other parts of the body. Acute arterial occlusion occurs
when the artery that supplies blood to the kidney suddenly becomes blocked.

The kidneys are involved about half of the time. Other body parts that may be
involved include the skin, eyes, muscles and bones, brain and nerves, and
organs in the abdomen. Acute kidney failure is possible if the blockages of
the kidney blood vessels are severe.

Atherosclerosis of the aorta is the most common cause of AERD. The cholesterol
crystals may also break off during aortic angiography, cardiac
catheterization, or surgery of the aorta or other major arteries.

In some cases, AERD may occur without a known cause.

The risk factors for AERD are the same as risk factors for atherosclerosis,
including age, male gender, cigarette smoking, high blood pressure, high
cholesterol and diabetes.

## Alternative Names

Renal disease - atheroembolic; Cholesterol embolization syndrome; Atheroemboli
- renal; Atherosclerotic disease - renal

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Dubose TD, Santos RM. Vascular disorders of the kidney. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 125.

Greco BA, Umanath K. Remonvascular hypertension and ischemic nephropathy. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds.Â _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 41.Â

Ruggenenti P, Cravedi P, Remuzzi G. Microvascular and macrovascular diseases
of the kidney. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds.
_Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 35.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

