Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000142.htm    
                                Description: Anti-glomerular basement membrane diseases (anti-GBM diseases) is a rare disorder that can involve quickly worsening kidney failure and lung disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-glomerular basement membrane disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000142.htm

# Anti-glomerular basement membrane disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anti-glomerular basement membrane diseases (anti-GBM diseases) is a rare
disorder that can involve quickly worsening kidney failure and lung disease.

Some forms of the disease involve just the lung or the kidney. Anti-GBM
disease used to be known as Goodpasture syndrome.

## Causes

Anti-GBM disease is an autoimmune disorder. It occurs when the immune system
mistakenly attacks and destroys healthy body tissue. People with this syndrome
develop substances that attack a protein called collagen in the tiny air sacs
in the lungs and the filtering units (glomeruli) of the kidneys.

These substances are called antiglomerular basement membrane antibodies. The
glomerular basement membrane is a part of the kidneys that helps filter waste
and extra fluid from the blood. Antiglomerular basement membrane antibodies
are antibodies against this membrane. They can damage the basement membrane,
which can lead to kidney damage.

Sometimes, this disorder is triggered by a viral respiratory infection or by
breathing in hydrocarbon solvents. In such cases, the immune system may attack
organs or tissues because it mistakes them for these viruses or foreign
chemicals.

The immune system's faulty response causes bleeding in the air sacs of the
lungs and inflammation in the kidney's filtering units.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may occur very slowly over months or even years, but they often
develop very quickly over days to weeks.

Loss of appetite, fatigue, and weakness are common early symptoms.

Lung symptoms may include:

    * Coughing up blood
    * Dry cough
    * Shortness of breath

Kidney and other symptoms include:

    * Bloody urine
    * Burning sensation when urinating
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pale skin
    * Swelling (edema) in any area of the body, especially in the legs

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination may reveal signs of high blood pressure and fluid
overload. The health care provider may hear abnormal heart and lung sounds
when listening to the chest with a stethoscope.

Urinalysis results are often abnormal, and show blood and protein in the
urine. Abnormal red blood cells may be seen.

The following tests may also be done:

    * Antiglomerular basement membrane test
    * Arterial blood gas
    * BUN 
    * Chest x-ray
    * Creatinine (serum)
    * Lung biopsy
    * Kidney biopsy

## Treatment

The main goal is to remove the harmful antibodies from the blood. Treatment
may include:

    * Plasmapheresis, which removes harmful antibodies to help reduce inflammation in the kidneys and lungs.
    * Corticosteroid medicines (such as prednisone) and other drugs, which suppress or quiet the immune system.
    * Medicines such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), which help control blood pressure.
    * Dialysis, which may be done if kidney failure can no longer be treated.
    * A kidney transplant, which may be done when your kidneys no longer function.

You may be told to limit your intake of salt and fluids to control swelling.
In some cases, a low-to-moderate protein diet may be recommended.

## Support Groups

These resources may provide more information on anti-GBM disease:

    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases -- www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/kidney-disease/glomerular-diseases/goodpasture-syndrome
    * National Kidney Foundation -- www.kidney.org/atoz/content/goodpasture
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/goodpasture-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An early diagnosis is very important. The outlook is much worse if the kidneys
are already severely damaged when treatment begins. Lung damage can range from
mild to severe.

Many people will need dialysis or a kidney transplant.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, this condition can lead to any of the following:

    * Chronic kidney disease
    * End-stage kidney disease
    * Lung failure
    * Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis
    * Severe pulmonary hemorrhage (lung bleeding)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you are producing less urine, or
you have any other symptoms of anti-GBM disease.

## Prevention

Never sniff glue or siphon gasoline with your mouth, which exposes the lungs
to hydrocarbon solvents and can cause the disease.

## Alternative Names

Goodpasture syndrome; Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with pulmonary
hemorrhage; Pulmonary renal syndrome; Glomerulonephritis - pulmonary
hemorrhage

## Images

    * ![Kidney blood supply](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8817t.jpg)Kidney blood supply

## References

Collard HR, King TE, Schwarz MI. Alveolar hemorrhage and rare infiltrative
diseases. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's
Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 67.

Phelps RG, Turner AN. Anti-glomerular basement membrane disease and
Goodpasture disease. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds.
_Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 24.

Radhakrishnan J, Appel GB, D'Agati VD. _Secondary glomerular disease_. In: Yu
ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 32.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

