Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001267.htm    
                                Description: Ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction is a blockage at the point where part of the kidney attaches to one of the tubes to the bladder (ureters). This blocks the flow of urine out of the kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

UPJ obstruction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001267.htm

# UPJ obstruction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction is a blockage at the point where part
of the kidney attaches to one of the tubes to the bladder (ureters). This
blocks the flow of urine out of the kidney.

## Causes

UPJ obstruction mostly occurs in children. It often happensÂ when a baby is
still growing in the womb. This is called a congenital condition (present from
birth).

The blockage is caused when there is:

    * A narrowing of area between the ureter and the part of the kidney called the renal pelvis
    * An abnormal blood vessel crossing over the ureter

As a result, urine builds up and damages kidney.

In older children and adults, the problem may be due to scar tissue,
infection, earlier treatments for a blockage, or kidney stones.

UPJ obstruction is the most common cause of urinary blockages in children. It
is now commonly found before birth with ultrasound tests. In some cases, the
condition may not show up until after birth. Surgery may be needed early in
life if the problem is severe. Most of the time, surgery is not needed until
later. Some cases do not require surgery at all.

## Symptoms

There may not be any symptoms. When symptoms occur, they may include:

    * Back or flank pain especially when consuming diuretics such as alcohol or caffeine
    * Bloody urine (hematuria)
    * Lump in the abdomen (abdominal mass)
    * Kidney infection
    * Poor growth in infants (failure to thrive)
    * Urinary tract infection, usually with fever
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

An ultrasound during pregnancy may show kidney problems in the unborn baby.

Tests after birth may include:

    * BUN
    * Creatinine clearance
    * CT scan
    * Electrolytes
    * IVP \-- lessÂ commonly used
    * CT urogram -- scan of both kidneys and ureters with IV contrast
    * Nuclear scan of kidneys
    * Voiding cystourethrogram
    * Ultrasound

## Treatment

Surgery to correct the blockage allows urine to flow normally. Most of the
time, open (invasive) surgery is performed in infants. Adults may be treated
with less-invasive procedures. These procedures involve much smaller surgical
cuts than open surgery, and may include:

    * Endoscopic (retrograde) technique does not require a surgical cut on the skin. Instead, a small instrument is placed into the urethra and bladder and into the affected ureter.Â This allows the surgeon to open the blockage from the inside.
    * Percutaneous (antegrade) technique involves a small surgical cut on the side of the body between the ribs and the hip.
    * Pyeloplasty removes scar tissue from the blocked area and reconnects the healthy part of the kidney to the healthy ureter.

Laparoscopy has also been used to treat UPJ obstruction in children and adults
who have not had success with other procedures.

A tube called a stent may be placed to drain urine from the kidney until the
surgery heals. A nephrostomy tube, which is placed in the side of the body to
drain urine, may also be needed for a short time after the surgery. This type
of tube may also be used to treat a bad infection before surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Detecting and treating the problem early can help prevent future kidney
damage. UPJ obstruction diagnosed before birth or early after birth may
actually improve on its own.

Most children do well and have no long-term problems. Serious damage may occur
in people who are diagnosed later in life.

Long-term outcomes are good with current treatments. Pyeloplasty has the best
long-term success.

## Possible Complications

If untreated, UPJ obstruction can lead to permanent loss of kidney function
(kidney failure).

Kidney stones or infection may occur in the affected kidney, even after
treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

CallÂ theÂ health care provider if your infant has:

    * Bloody urine
    * Fever
    * A lump in the abdomen
    * Indications of back pain or pain in the flanks (the area toward the sides of the body between the ribs and the pelvis)

## Alternative Names

Ureteropelvic junction obstruction; UP junction obstruction; Obstruction of
the ureteropelvic junction

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Elder JS. Obstruction of the urinary tract. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 555.

FrÃ¸kiaer J. Urinary tract obstruction. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

Meldrum KK. Pathophysiology of urinary tract obstruction. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 48.

Nakada SY, Best SL. Management of upper urinary tract obstruction. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

Stephany HA, Ost MC. Urologic disorders. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk
AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 15.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Ureteral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UreteralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ureteral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

