Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001576.htm    
                                Description: Congenital nephrotic syndrome is a disorder that is passed down through families in which a baby develops protein in the urine and swelling of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital nephrotic syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001576.htm

# Congenital nephrotic syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital nephrotic syndrome is a disorder that is passed down through
families in which a baby develops protein in the urine and swelling of the
body.

## Causes

Congenital nephrotic syndrome is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. This
means that each parent must pass on a copy of the defective gene in order for
the child to have the disease.

Although congenital means present from birth, with congenital nephrotic
syndrome, symptoms of the disease occur in the first 3 months of life.

Congenital nephrotic syndrome is a very rare form of nephrotic syndrome.

Nephrotic syndrome is a group of symptoms that include:

    * Protein in the urine
    * Low blood protein levels in the blood
    * High cholesterol levels
    * High triglyceride levels
    * Swelling

Children with this disorder have an abnormal form of a protein called nephrin.
The kidney's filters (glomeruli) need this protein to function normally.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of nephrotic syndrome include:

    * Cough
    * Decreased urine output
    * Foamy appearance of urine
    * Low birth weight
    * Poor appetite
    * Swelling (total body)

## Exams and Tests

An ultrasound done on the pregnant mother may show a larger-than-normal
placenta. The placenta is the organ that develops during pregnancy to feed the
growing baby.

Pregnant mothers may have a screening test done during pregnancy to check for
this condition. The test looks for higher-than-normal levels of alpha-
fetoprotein in a sample of amniotic fluid. Genetic tests are then used to
confirm the diagnosis if the screening test is positive.

After birth, the infant will show signs of severe fluid retention and
swelling. The health care provider will hear abnormal sounds when listening to
the baby's heart and lungs with a stethoscope. Blood pressure may be high.
There may be signs of malnutrition.

A urinalysis reveals fat and large amounts of protein in the urine. Total
protein in the blood may be low.

## Treatment

Early and aggressive treatment is needed to control this disorder.

Treatment may involve:

    * Antibiotics to control infections
    * Blood pressure medicines called angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) to reduce the amount of protein leaking into the urine
    * Diuretics ("water pills") to remove excess fluid
    * NSAIDs, such as indomethacin, to reduce the amount of protein leaking into the urine

Fluids may be limited to help control swelling.

The provider may recommend removing the kidneys to stop protein loss. This may
be followed by dialysis or a kidney transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disorder often leads to infection, malnutrition, and kidney failure. It
can lead to death by age 5, and many children die within the first year.
Congenital nephrotic syndrome may be controlled in some cases with early and
aggressive treatment, including an early kidney transplant.

## Possible Complications

Complications of this condition include:

    * Acute kidney failure
    * Blood clots
    * Chronic kidney failure
    * End-stage kidney disease
    * Frequent, severe infections
    * Malnutrition and related diseases

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of congenital nephrotic
syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Nephrotic syndrome - congenital

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Erkan E. Nephrotic syndrome. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 545.

SchlÃ¶ndorff J, Pollak MR. Inherited disorders of the glomerulus. In: Yu ASL,
Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 43.

Vogt BA, Springel T. The kidney and urinary tract of the neonate. In: Martin
RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 93.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

