Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000479.htm    
                                Description: Low blood potassium level is a condition in which the amount of potassium in the blood is lower than normal. The medical nameÂ of this condition is hypokalemia.Â     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low blood potassium

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000479.htm

# Low blood potassium

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low blood potassium level is a condition in which the amount of potassium in
the blood is lower than normal. The medical nameÂ of this condition is
hypokalemia.Â

## Causes

Potassium is an electrolyte (mineral). It is needed for cells to function
properly. You get potassium through food. The kidneys remove excess potassium
through the urinary system to keep a proper balance of the mineral in the
body.

Common causes of low blood potassium include:

    * Medicines, such as diuretics (water pills), certain antibiotics
    * Diarrhea or vomiting
    * Eating disorders (such as bulimia)
    * Hyperaldosteronism
    * Laxative overuse, which can cause diarrhea
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Low magnesium level
    * Sweating
    * Genetic disorders, such as hypokalemic periodic paralysis, Bartter syndrome

## Symptoms

A small drop in potassium level often does not cause symptoms, which may be
mild, and may include:

    * Constipation
    * Feeling of skipped heart beats or palpitations
    * Fatigue 
    * Muscle damage 
    * Muscle weakness or spasms 
    * Tingling or numbness 

A large drop in potassium level may lead to abnormal heart rhythms, especially
in people with heart disease. This can cause you to feel lightheaded or faint.
A very low potassium level can even cause your heart to stop.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will order a blood test to check your potassium
level. Normal range is 3.7 to 5.2 mEq/L (3.7 to 5.2 mmol/L).

Other blood tests may be ordered to check levels of:

    * Glucose, magnesium, calcium, sodium, phosphorous
    * Thyroid hormone
    * Aldosterone

An electrocardiogram (ECG) to check the heart may also be done.

## Treatment

If your condition is mild, your provider will likely prescribe oral potassium
pills. If your condition is severe, you may need to get potassium through a
vein (IV).

If you need diuretics, your providerÂ may:

    * Switch you to a form that keeps potassium in the body. This type of diuretic is called potassium-sparing.
    * Prescribe extra potassium for you to take every day.

Eating foods rich in potassium can help treat and prevent low level of
potassium. These foods include:

    * Avocados
    * Baked potato
    * Bananas
    * Bran
    * Carrots
    * Cooked lean beef
    * Milk
    * Oranges
    * Peanut butter
    * Peas and beans
    * Salmon
    * Seaweed
    * Spinach
    * Tomatoes
    * Wheat germ

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Taking potassium supplements can usually correct the problem. In severe cases,
without proper treatment, a severe drop in potassium level can lead to serious
heart rhythm problems that can be fatal.

## Possible Complications

In severe cases, life-threatening paralysis may develop, such as with
hypokalemic periodic paralysis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have been vomiting or have had excessive
diarrhea, or if you are taking diuretics and have symptoms of hypokalemia.

## Alternative Names

Potassium - low; Low blood potassium; Hypokalemia

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Mount DB. Disorders of potassium balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Seifter JL. Potassium disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Potassium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Potassium_thumb.jpg)Potassium
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

