Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000490.htm    
                                Description: Nephrotic syndrome is a group of symptoms that include protein in the urine, low blood protein levels in the blood, high cholesterol levels, high triglyceride levels, increased blood clot risk, and swelling.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nephrotic syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000490.htm

# Nephrotic syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nephrotic syndrome is a group of symptoms that include protein in the urine,
low blood protein levels in the blood, high cholesterol levels, high
triglyceride levels, increased blood clot risk, and swelling.

## Causes

Nephrotic syndrome is caused by different disorders that damage the kidneys.
This damage leads to the release of too much protein in the urine.

The most common cause in children is minimal change disease. Membranous
glomerulonephritis is the most common cause in adults.Â In both diseases, the
glomeruli in the kidneys are damaged. Glomeruli are the structures that help
filter wastes and fluids.

This condition can also occur from:

    * Cancer
    * Diseases such as diabetes, systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple myeloma, and amyloidosis
    * Genetic disorders
    * Immune disorders
    * Infections (such as strep throat, hepatitis, or mononucleosis)
    * Use of certain drugs

It can occur with kidney disorders such as:

    * Focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis
    * Glomerulonephritis
    * Mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis

Nephrotic syndrome can affect all age groups. In children, it is most common
between ages 2 and 6. This disorder occurs slightly more often in males than
females.

## Symptoms

Swelling (edema) is the most common symptom. It may occur:

    * In the face and around the eyes (facial swelling)
    * In the arms and legs, especially in the feet and ankles
    * In the belly area (swollen abdomen)

Other symptoms include:

    * Skin rash or sores
    * Foamy appearance of the urine
    * Poor appetite
    * Weight gain (unintentional) from fluid retention
    * Seizures

## Exams and Tests

TheÂ health care providerÂ will perform a physical exam. Laboratory tests will
be done to see how well the kidneys are working. They include:

    * Albumin blood test
    * Blood chemistry tests, such as basic metabolic panel or comprehensive metabolic panel
    * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
    * Creatinine - blood test
    * Creatinine clearance - urine test
    * Urinalysis

Fats are often also present in the urine. Blood cholesterol and triglyceride
levels may be high.

A kidney biopsy may be needed to find the cause of the disorder.

Tests to rule out various causes may include the following:

    * Antinuclear antibody
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Complement levels
    * Glucose tolerance test
    * Hepatitis B and C antibodies
    * HIV test
    * Rheumatoid factor
    * Serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP)
    * Syphilis serology
    * Urine protein electrophoresis (UPEP)

This disease may also change the results of the following tests:

    * Vitamin D level
    * Serum iron
    * Urinary casts

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to relieve symptoms, prevent complications, and
delay kidney damage. To control nephrotic syndrome, the disorder that is
causing it must be treated. You may need treatment for life.

Treatments may include any of the following:

    * Keeping blood pressure at or below 130/80 mm Hg to delay kidney damage. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are the medicines most often used. ACE inhibitors and ARBs may also help decrease the amount of protein lost in the urine.
    * Corticosteroids and other drugs that suppress or quiet the immune system.
    * Treating high cholesterol to reduce the risk for heart and blood vessel problems --Â A low-fat, low-cholesterol diet is usually not enough for people with nephrotic syndrome. Medicines to reduce cholesterol and triglycerides (usually statins) may be needed.
    * A low-sodium diet may help with swelling in the hands and legs. Water pills (diuretics) may also help with this problem.
    * Low-protein diets may be helpful. Your provider may suggest a moderate-protein diet (1 gram of protein per kilogram of body weight per day).
    * TakingÂ vitamin D supplements if nephrotic syndrome is long-term and is not responding to treatment.
    * Taking blood thinner drugs to treat or prevent blood clots.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome varies. Some people recover from the condition. Others develop long-
term kidney disease and need dialysisÂ and eventually a kidney transplant.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from nephrotic syndrome include:

    * Acute kidney failure
    * Hardening of the arteries and related heart diseases
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Fluid overload, heart failure, fluid buildup in lungs
    * Infections, including pneumococcal pneumonia
    * Malnutrition
    * Renal vein thrombosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You or your child develops symptoms of nephrotic syndrome, including swelling in face, belly, or arms and legs, or skin sores
    * You or your child are being treated for nephrotic syndrome, but symptoms don't improve
    * New symptoms develop, including cough, decreased urine output,Â discomfort with urination, fever, severe headache 

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have seizures.

## Prevention

Treating conditions that can cause nephrotic syndrome may help prevent the
syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Nephrosis

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Erkan E. Nephrotic syndrome. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 545.

Saha MK, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

