Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000496.htm    
                                Description: Minimal change disease is a kidney disorder that can lead to nephrotic syndrome. Nephrotic syndrome is a group of symptoms that include protein in the urine, low blood protein levels in the blood, high    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Minimal change disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000496.htm

# Minimal change disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Minimal change disease is a kidney disorder that can lead to nephrotic
syndrome. Nephrotic syndrome is a group of symptoms that include protein in
the urine, low blood protein levels in the blood, high cholesterol levels,
high triglyceride levels, and swelling.

## Causes

Each kidney is made of more than a million units called nephrons, which filter
blood and produce urine.

In minimal change disease, there is damage to the glomeruli. These are the
tiny blood vessels inside the nephron where blood is filtered to make urine
and waste is removed. The disease gets its name because this damage is not
visible under a regular microscope. It can only be seen under a very powerful
microscope called an electron microscope.

Minimal change disease is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in
children. It is also seen in adults with nephrotic syndrome, but is less
common.

The cause is unknown, but the disease may occur after or be related to:

    * Allergic reactions
    * Use of NSAIDs
    * Tumors
    * Vaccinations (flu and pneumococcal, though rare)
    * Viral infections 

## Symptoms

There may be symptoms of nephrotic syndrome, including:

    * Foamy appearance of the urine
    * Poor appetite
    * Swelling (especially around the eyes, feet, and ankles, and in the abdomen)
    * Weight gain (from fluid retention)

Minimal change disease does not reduce the amount of urine produced. It rarely
progresses to kidney failure.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may not be able to see any signs of the disease,
other than swelling. Blood and urine tests reveal signs of nephrotic syndrome,
including:

    * High cholesterol
    * High levels of protein in the urine
    * Low levels of albumin in the blood

A kidney biopsy and examination of the tissue with an electron microscope can
show signs of minimal change disease.

## Treatment

Medicines called corticosteroids can cure minimal change disease in most
children. Some children may need to stay on steroids to keep the disease from
returning.

In adults, steroids are effective, but less so than in children. Adults may
have more frequent relapses and become dependent on steroids.

If steroids are not effective, the provider will likely suggest other
medicines.

Swelling may be treated with:

    * ACE inhibitor medicines
    * Blood pressure control
    * Diuretics (water pills)

You may also be told to reduce the amount of salt in your diet.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children usually respond better to corticosteroids than adults. Children often
respond within the first month.

A relapse can occur. The condition may improve after long-term treatment with
corticosteroids and medicines that suppress the immune system
(immunosuppressive medicines).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of minimal change disease
    * You have this disorder and your symptoms get worse
    * You develop new symptoms, including side effects from the medicines used to treat the disorder 

## Alternative Names

Minimal change nephrotic syndrome; Nil disease; Lipoid nephrosis; Idiopathic
nephrotic syndrome of childhood

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Appel GB, Radhakrishnan J, D'Agati VD. Secondary glomerular disease. In:
Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Pais P, Avner ED. Nephrotic syndrome. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 527.

## Review Date 12/18/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

