Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000474.htm    
                                Description: Bilateral hydronephrosis is the enlargement of the parts of the kidney that collect urine. Bilateral means both sides.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bilateral hydronephrosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000474.htm

# Bilateral hydronephrosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bilateral hydronephrosis is the enlargement of the parts of the kidney that
collect urine. Bilateral means both sides.

## Causes

Bilateral hydronephrosis occurs when urine is unable to drain from the kidney
into the bladder. Hydronephrosis is not itself a disease. It occurs as a
result of a problem that prevents urine from draining out of the kidneys,
ureters, and bladder.

Disorders linked with bilateral hydronephrosis include:

    * Acute bilateral obstructive uropathy - sudden blockage of the kidneys
    * Bladder outlet obstruction \- blockage of the bladder,Â which does not allow drainage
    * Chronic bilateral obstructive uropathy - a gradual blockage of both kidneys is most often from a common singular obstruction
    * Neurogenic bladder \- poorly functional bladder
    * Posterior urethral valves - flaps on the urethra that causes poor emptying of the bladder (in boys)
    * Prune belly syndrome \- poorly emptying bladder that causes distention of the belly
    * Retroperitoneal fibrosis - increased scar tissue that blocks the ureters
    * Ureteropelvic junction obstruction - blockage of the kidney at the point where the ureter enters the kidney
    * Vesicoureteric reflux \- backup of the urine from the bladder up to the kidney
    * Uterine prolapse - when the bladder drops down and presses into the vaginal area. This causes a kink in the urethra, which prevents the urine from emptying out of the bladder.

## Symptoms

In a baby, signs of a problem are often found before birth during a pregnancy
ultrasound.

A urinary tract infection in a newborn baby can signal a blockage in the
kidney. An older child who gets repeat urinary tract infections should also be
checked for blockage.

A higher than normal number of urinary tract infections is often the only
symptom of the problem.

Common symptoms in adults may include:

    * Back pain
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Fever
    * Need to urinate often
    * Decreased urine output
    * Blood in the urine
    * Urinary incontinence

## Exams and Tests

The following tests can show bilateral hydronephrosis:

    * CT scan of the abdomen or kidneys
    * IVP (used less often)
    * Pregnancy (fetal) ultrasound
    * Renal scan
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen or kidneys 

## Treatment

Placing a tube into the bladder (Foley catheter) may open the blockage. Other
treatments include:

    * Draining the bladder 
    * Relieving pressure by placing tubes in the kidney through the skin 
    * Placing a tube (stent) through the ureter to allow urine to flow from the kidney to bladder 

The underlying cause of the blockage needs to be found and treated once the
buildup of urine is relieved.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery performed while the baby is in the womb or shortly after birth can
have good results in improving kidney function.

Return of renal function can vary, depending on how long the blockage is
present.

## Possible Complications

Irreversible kidney damage may result from conditions that cause
hydronephrosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This problem is often found by the health care provider.

## Prevention

An ultrasound during pregnancy can show a blockage in the baby's urinary
tract. This allows the problem to be treated with early surgery.

Other causes of blockage, such as kidney stones, can be detected early if
people notice warning signs of kidney problems.

It is important to pay attention to general problems with urination.

## Alternative Names

Hydronephrosis - bilateral

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Elder JS. Obstruction of the urinary tract. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 540.

FrÃ¸kiaer J. Urinary tract obstruction. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

Gallagher KM, Hughes J. Urinary tract obstruction. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 58.

Nakada SY, Best SL. Management of upper urinary tract obstruction. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

