Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000503.htm    
                                Description: Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (GN) is a kidney disorder that occurs after infection with certain strains of streptococcus bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (GN)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000503.htm

# Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (GN)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (GN) is a kidney disorder that occurs
after infection with certain strains of streptococcus bacteria.

## Causes

Poststreptococcal GN is a form of glomerulonephritis. It is caused by an
infection with a type of streptococcus bacteria. The infection does not occur
in the kidneys, but in a different part of the body, such as the skin or
throat. The disorder may develop 1 to 2 weeks after an untreated throat
infection, or 3 to 4 weeks after a skin infection.

It may occur in people of any age, but it most often occurs in children ages 6
through 10. Although skin and throat infections are common in children,
poststreptococcal GN is rarely a complication of these infections.
Poststreptococcal GN causes the tiny blood vessels in the filtering units of
the kidneys (glomeruli) to become inflamed. This makes the kidneys less able
to filter the urine.

The condition is not common today because infections that can lead to the
disorder are treated with antibiotics.

Risk factors include:

    * Strep throat
    * Streptococcal skin infections (such as impetigo)

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Decreased urine output
    * Rust-colored urine
    * Swelling (edema), general swelling, swelling of the abdomen, swelling of the face or eyes, swelling of the feet, ankles, hands
    * Visible blood in the urine
    * Joint pain
    * Joint stiffness or swelling 

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination shows swelling (edema), especially in the face.
Abnormal sounds may be heard when listening to the heart and lungs with a
stethoscope. Blood pressure is often high.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Anti-DNase B
    * Serum ASO (and streptolysin O)
    * Serum complement levels
    * Urinalysis
    * Kidney biopsy (usually not needed) 

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for this disorder. Treatment is focused on
relieving symptoms.

    * Antibiotics, such as penicillin, will likely be used to destroy any streptococcal bacteria that remain in the body.
    * Blood pressure medicines and diuretic drugs may be needed to control swelling and high blood pressure.
    * Corticosteroids and other anti-inflammatory medicines are generally not effective.

You may need to limit salt in your diet to control swelling and high blood
pressure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Poststreptococcal GN usually goes away by itself after several weeks to
months.

In small number of adults, it may get worse and lead to long-term (chronic)
kidney failure. Sometimes, it can progress to end-stage kidney disease, which
requires dialysis and a kidney transplant.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from this disorder include:

    * Acute renal failure (rapid loss of kidneys' ability to remove waste and help balance fluids and electrolytes in the body)
    * Chronic glomerulonephritis
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Heart failure or pulmonary edema (fluid buildup in the lungs)
    * End-stage renal disease
    * Hyperkalemia (abnormally high potassium level in the blood)
    * High blood pressure (hypertension)
    * Nephrotic syndrome (group of symptoms that include protein in the urine, low blood protein levels in the blood, high cholesterol levels, high triglyceride levels, and swelling)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have symptoms of poststreptococcal GN
    * You have poststreptococcal GN, and you have decreased urine output or other new symptoms

## Prevention

Treating known streptococcal infections may help prevent poststreptococcal GN.
Also, practicing good hygiene such as washing hands often prevents the spread
of the infection.

## Alternative Names

Glomerulonephritis - poststreptococcal; Postinfectious glomerulonephritis

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Flores FX. Isolated glomerular diseases associated with recurrent gross
hematuria. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson
KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 537.

Saha MK, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

