Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000464.htm    
                                Description: Interstitial nephritis is a kidney disorder in which the spaces between the kidney tubules become swollen (inflamed). This can cause problems with the way your kidneys work.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Interstitial nephritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000464.htm

# Interstitial nephritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Interstitial nephritis is a kidney disorder in which the spaces between the
kidney tubules become swollen (inflamed). This can cause problems with the way
your kidneys work.

## Causes

Interstitial nephritis may be temporary (acute), or it may be long-lasting
(chronic) and get worse over time.

The acute form of interstitial nephritis is most often caused by side effects
of certain drugs.

The following can cause interstitial nephritis:

    * Allergic reaction to a drug (acute interstitial allergic nephritis).
    * Autoimmune disorders, such as antitubular basement membrane disease, Kawasaki disease, SjÃ¶gren syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, or granulomatosis with polyangiitis.
    * Infections.
    * Long-term use of medicines such as acetaminophen (Tylenol), aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). This is called analgesic nephropathy.
    * Side effect of certain antibiotics such as penicillin, ampicillin, methicillin, and sulfonamide medicines.
    * Side effect of other medicines such as furosemide, thiazide diuretics, omeprazole, triamterene, and allopurinol.
    * Too little potassium in your blood.
    * Too much calcium or uric acid in your blood. 

## Symptoms

Interstitial nephritis can cause mild to severe kidney problems, including
acute kidney failure. In about half of cases, people will have decreased urine
output and other signs of acute kidney failure.

Symptoms of this condition may include:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Fever
    * Increased or decreased urine output
    * Mental status changes (drowsiness, confusion, coma)
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Rash
    * Swelling of any area of body
    * Weight gain (from retaining fluid)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal:

    * Abnormal lung or heart sounds
    * High blood pressure
    * Fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema)

Common tests include:

    * Arterial blood gases
    * Blood chemistry
    * BUN and blood creatinine levels
    * Complete blood count
    * Kidney biopsy
    * Kidney ultrasound
    * Urinalysis

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. Avoiding medicines that lead to
this condition may quickly relieve symptoms.

Limiting salt and fluid in the diet can improve swelling and high blood
pressure. Limiting protein in the diet can help control the buildup of waste
products in the blood (azotemia), which can lead to symptoms of acute kidney
failure.

If dialysis is necessary, it usually is required for only a short time.

Corticosteroids or stronger anti-inflammatory medicines such as
cyclophosphamide can sometimes be helpful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most often, interstitial nephritis is a short-term disorder. In rare cases, it
can cause permanent damage, including long-term (chronic) kidney failure.

Acute interstitial nephritis may be more severe and more likely to lead to
long-term or permanent kidney damage in older people.

## Possible Complications

Metabolic acidosis can occur because the kidneys aren't able to remove enough
acid. The disorder can lead to acute or chronic kidney failure or end-stage
kidney disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of interstitial nephritis.

If you have interstitial nephritis, call your provider if you get new
symptoms, especially if you are less alert or have a decrease in urine output.

## Prevention

Often, the disorder can't be prevented. Avoiding or reducing your use of
medicines that can cause this condition can help reduce your risk.Â If needed,
your provider will tell you which medicines to stop or reduce.

## Alternative Names

Tubulointerstitial nephritis; Nephritis - interstitial; Acute interstitial
(allergic) nephritis

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Neilson EG. Tubulointerstitial nephritis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 122.

Perazella MA, Rosner MH. Tubulointerstitial diseases. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM,
Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 35.

Tanaka T, Nangaku M. Chronic interstitial nephritis. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 62.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

