Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000333.htm    
                                Description: Fanconi syndrome is a disorder of the kidney tubes in which certain substances normally absorbed into the bloodstream by the kidneys are released into the urine instead.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fanconi syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000333.htm

# Fanconi syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fanconi syndrome is a disorder of the kidney tubes in which certain substances
normally absorbed into the bloodstream by the kidneys are released into the
urine instead.

## Causes

Fanconi syndrome can be caused by faulty genes, or it may result later in life
due to kidney damage. Sometimes the cause of Fanconi syndrome is unknown.

Common causes of Fanconi syndrome in children are genetic defects that affect
the body's ability to break down certain compounds such as:

    * Cystine (cystinosis) 
    * Fructose (fructose intolerance) 
    * Galactose (galactosemia) 
    * Glycogen (glycogen storage disease) 

Cystinosis is the most common cause of Fanconi syndrome in children.

Other causes in children include:

    * Exposure to heavy metals such as lead, mercury, or cadmium
    * Lowe syndrome, a rare genetic disorder of the eyes, brain, and kidneys
    * Wilson disease
    * Dent disease, a rare genetic disorder of the kidneys

In adults, Fanconi syndrome can be caused by various things that damage the
kidneys, including:

    * Certain medicines, including azathioprine, cidofovir, gentamicin, and tetracycline 
    * Kidney transplant 
    * Light chain deposition disease 
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Primary amyloidosis

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Passing large amounts of urine, which can lead to dehydration
    * Excessive thirst
    * Severe bone pain
    * Fractures due to bone weakness
    * Muscle weakness

## Exams and Tests

Laboratory tests may show that too much of the following substances may be
lost in the urine:

    * Amino acids
    * Bicarbonate
    * Glucose
    * Magnesium
    * Phosphate
    * Potassium
    * Sodium
    * Uric acid

Loss of these substances can lead to a variety of problems. Further tests and
a physical exam may show signs of:

    * Dehydration due to excess urination
    * Growth failure
    * Osteomalacia
    * Rickets
    * Type 2 renal tubular acidosis

## Treatment

Many different diseases can cause Fanconi syndrome. The underlying cause and
its symptoms should be treated as appropriate.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The prognosis depends on the underlying disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have dehydration or muscle weakness.

## Alternative Names

De Toni-Fanconi-DebrÃ© syndrome

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Bonnardeaux A, Bichet DG. Inherited disorders of the renal tubule. In:
Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

Foreman JW. Fanconi syndrome and other proximal tubule disorders. In: Johnson
RJ, Feehally J, Floege J, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 50.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

