Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000295.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove part of one kidney or the entire kidney, the lymph nodes near it, and maybe your adrenal gland. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you leave the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kidney removal - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000295.htm

# Kidney removal - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove part of one kidney or the entire kidney, the lymph
nodes near it, and maybe your adrenal gland. This article tells you how to
take care of yourself when you leave the hospital.

## When You Were in the Hospital

You may have an 8- to 12-inch (20- to 30-centimeters) surgical cut over your
belly or along your side. If you had laparoscopic surgery, you may have three
or four small cuts.

## What to Expect at Home

Recovering from kidney removal most often takes around 3 to 6 weeks. You may
have some of these symptoms:

    * Pain in your belly or on the side where you had the kidney removed. The pain should get better over several days to a week.
    * Bruising around your wounds. This will go away on its own.
    * Redness around your wounds. This is normal.
    * Pain in your shoulder if you had laparoscopy. The gas used in your belly can irritate some of your abdomen muscles and radiates pain to your shoulder.

## Activity

Plan to have someone drive you home from the hospital. DO NOT drive yourself
home. You may also need help with everyday activities for the first 1 to 2
weeks. Set up your home so it is easier to use.

You should be able to do most of your regular activities within 4 to 6 weeks.
Before then:

    * DO NOT lift anything heavier than 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) until you see your doctor.
    * Avoid all strenuous activity, including heavy exercises, weightlifting, and other activities that make you breathe hard or strain.
    * Taking short walks and using the stairs is OK.
    * Light housework is OK.
    * DO NOT push yourself too hard. Slowly increase the amount of time and the intensity of your exercise. Wait until you follow up with your health care provider to be cleared for exercise. 

To manage your pain:

    * Your provider will prescribe pain medicines for you to use at home.
    * If you are taking pain pills 3 or 4 times a day, try taking them at the same times each day for 3 to 4 days. They may work better this way. Be aware that the pain medicine can cause constipation. Try to maintain normal bowel habits.
    * Try getting up and moving around if you are having some pain. This may ease your pain.
    * You may put some ice over the wound. But keep the wound dry. 

Press a pillow over your incision when you cough or sneeze to ease discomfort
and protect your incision.

Make sure your home is safe as you are recovering.

## Wound Care

You will need to keep your incision area clean, dry, and protected. Change
your dressings the way your provider taught you to.

    * If stitches, staples, or glue was used to close your skin, you may take a shower.
    * If tape strips were used to close your skin, cover the wounds with plastic wrap before showering for the first week. DO NOT try to wash the tape strips off. Let them fall off on their own. 

DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub, or go swimming, until your provider tells
you it is OK.

## Diet

Eat a normal diet. Drink 4 to 8 glasses of water or liquids a day, unless you
are told otherwise.

If you have hard stools:

    * Try to walk and be more active. But DO NOT overdo it.
    * If you can, take less of some of the pain medicines your doctor gave you. Some can cause constipation.
    * Try a stool softener. You can get these at any pharmacy without a prescription.
    * Ask your provider what laxatives you can take.
    * Ask your doctor about foods that are high in fiber, or try psyllium (Metamucil). 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have a temperature above 100.5Â°F (38Â°C)
    * Your surgical wounds are bleeding, are red or warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage
    * Your belly swells or hurts
    * You have nausea or vomiting for more than 24 hours
    * You have pain that does not get better when you take your pain medicines
    * It is hard to breathe
    * You have a cough that does not go away
    * You cannot drink or eat
    * You cannot pee (urinate) 

## Alternative Names

Nephrectomy - discharge; Simple nephrectomy - discharge; Radical nephrectomy -
discharge; Open nephrectomy - discharge; Laparoscopic nephrectomy - discharge;
Partial nephrectomy - discharge

## References

Olumi AF, Preston MA, Blute ML. Open surgery of the kidney. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 60.

Schwartz MJ, Rais-Bahrami S, Kavoussi LR. Laparoscopic and robotic surgery of
the kidney. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 61.

## Read More

    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Kidney removal
    * Kidney transplant
    * Renal cell carcinoma

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Preventing falls
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Kidney Cancer
    * Kidney Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

