Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000478.htm    
                                Description: Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is scar tissue in the filtering unit of the kidney. This structure is called the glomerulus. The glomeruli serve as filters that help the body get rid of harmful substances.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000478.htm

# Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is scar tissue in the filtering unit of the
kidney. This structure is called the glomerulus. The glomeruli serve as
filters that help the body get rid of harmful substances. Each kidney has
thousands of glomeruli.

"Focal" means that some of the glomeruli become scarred. Others remain normal.
"Segmental" means that only part of an individual glomerulus is damaged.

## Causes

The cause of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is often unknown.

The condition affects both children and adults. It occurs slightly more often
in men and boys. It is also more common in African Americans. Focal segmental
glomerulosclerosis causes up to a quarter of all cases of nephrotic syndrome.

Known causes include:

    * Drugs such as heroin, bisphosphonates, anabolic steroids
    * Infection
    * Inherited genetic problems
    * Obesity
    * Reflux nephropathy (a condition in which urine flows backward from the bladder to the kidney)
    * Sickle cell disease
    * Some medicines 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Foamy urine (from excess protein in the urine)
    * Poor appetite
    * Swelling, called generalized edema, from fluids held in the body
    * Weight gain 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This exam may show
tissue swelling (edema) and high blood pressure. Signs of kidney (renal)
failure and excess fluid may develop as the condition gets worse.

Tests may include:

    * Kidney biopsy
    * Kidney function tests (blood and urine)
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine microscopy
    * Urine protein

## Treatment

Treatments may include:

    * Medicines to reduce the body's inflammatory response.
    * Medicines to lower blood pressure. Some of these medicines also help reduce the amount of protein that spills into the urine.
    * Medicines to get rid of excess fluid (diuretic or "water pill").
    * Low sodium diet to reduce swelling and lower blood pressure. 

The goal of treatment is to control the symptoms of nephrotic syndrome and
prevent chronic kidney failure. These treatments may include:

    * Antibiotics to control infections
    * Fluid restriction
    * Low-fat diet
    * Low- or moderate-protein diet
    * Vitamin D supplements
    * Dialysis
    * Kidney transplant

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A large portion of people with focal or segmental glomerulosclerosis will
develop chronic kidney failure.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Chronic kidney failure
    * End-stage kidney disease
    * Infection
    * Malnutrition
    * Nephrotic syndrome 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of this condition, especially if
there is:

    * Fever
    * Pain with urination
    * Decreased urine output

## Prevention

No prevention is known.

## Alternative Names

Segmental glomerulosclerosis; Focal sclerosis with hyalinosis

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Appel GB, D'Agati VD. Primary and secondary (non-genetic) causes of focal and
segmental glomerulosclerosis. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ,
eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 18.

Appel GB, Radhakrishnan J. Glomerular disorders and nephrotic syndromes. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine.Â_ 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 121.

Pendergraft WF, Nachman PH, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease.
In: Skorecki K, Taal MW, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
32.

## Review Date 4/15/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

