Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002394.htm    
                                Description: Bili lights are a type of light therapy (phototherapy) that is used to treat newborn jaundice. Jaundice is a yellow coloring of the skin and eyes. It is caused by too much of a yellow substance called    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bili lights

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002394.htm

# Bili lights

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bili lights are a type of light therapy (phototherapy) that is used to treat
newborn jaundice. Jaundice is a yellow coloring of the skin and eyes. It is
caused by too much of a yellow substance called bilirubin. Bilirubin is
created when the body replaces old red blood cells with new ones.

## Information

Phototherapy involves shining fluorescent light from the bili lights on bare
skin. A specific wavelength of light can break down bilirubin into a form that
the body can get rid of through the urine and stools. The light looks blue.

    * The newborn is placed under the lights without clothes or just wearing a diaper.
    * The eyes are covered to protect them from the bright light.
    * The baby is turned frequently. 

The health care team carefully notes the infant's temperature, vital signs,
and responses to the light. They also note how long the treatment lasted and
the position of the light bulbs.

The baby may become dehydrated from the lights. Fluids may be given through a
vein during treatment.

Blood tests are done to check the bilirubin level. When the levels have
dropped enough, phototherapy is complete.

Some infants receive phototherapy at home. In this case, a nurse visits daily
and draws a sample of blood for testing.

Treatment depends on 3 things:

    * Gestational age
    * Bilirubin level in the blood
    * Newborn's age (in hours) 

In severe cases of increased bilirubin, an exchange transfusion may be done
instead.

## Alternative Names

Phototherapy for jaundice; Bilirubin - bili lights; Neonatal care - bili
lights; Newborn care - bili lights

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## Images

    * ![Bili lights](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17092t.jpg)Bili lights

## References

Kaplan M, Wong RJ, Sibley E, Stevenson DK. Neonatal jaundice and liver
diseases. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 100.

Maheshwari A, Carlo WA. Digestive system disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Watchko JF. Neonatal indirect hyperbilirubinemia and kernicterus. In: Gleason
CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 84.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

