Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001196.htm    
                                Description: Transient familial hyperbilirubinemia is a metabolic disorder that is passed down through families. Babies with this disorder are born with severe jaundice.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transient familial hyperbilirubinemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001196.htm

# Transient familial hyperbilirubinemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transient familial hyperbilirubinemia is a metabolic disorder that is passed
down through families. Babies with this disorder are born with severe
jaundice.

## Causes

Transient familial hyperbilirubinemia is an inherited disorder. It occurs when
the body does not properly break down (metabolize) a certain form of
bilirubin. Bilirubin levels rapidly build up in the body. The high levels are
poisonous to the brain and can cause death.

## Symptoms

The newborn may have:

    * Yellow skin (jaundice)
    * Yellow eyes (icterus)
    * Lethargy

If untreated, seizures and neurologic problems (kernicterus) may develop.

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests for bilirubin levels can identify the severity of the jaundice.

## Treatment

Phototherapy with blue light is used to treat the high level of bilirubin. An
exchange transfusion is sometimes necessary if the levels are extremely high.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Babies who are treated can have a good outcome. If the condition is not
treated, severe complications develop. This disorder tends to improve with
time.

## Possible Complications

Death or severe brain and nervous system (neurological) problems can occur if
the condition is not treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This problem is most often found immediately after delivery. However, call
your health care provider if you notice your baby's skin turning yellow. There
are other causes for jaundice in the newborn that are easily treated.

Genetic counseling can help families understand the condition, its risks of
recurring, and how to care for the person.

## Prevention

Phototherapy can help prevent serious complications of this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Lucey-Driscoll syndrome

## References

Cappellini MD, Lo SF, Swinkels DW. Hemoglobin, iron, bilirubin. In: Rifai N,
ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed.
St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

Korenblat KM, Berk PD. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 138.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

