Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001127.htm    
                                Description: Crigler-Najjar syndrome is a very rare inherited disorder in which bilirubin cannot be broken down. Bilirubin is a substance made by the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crigler-Najjar syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001127.htm

# Crigler-Najjar syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Crigler-Najjar syndrome is a very rare inherited disorder in which bilirubin
cannot be broken down. Bilirubin is a substance made by the liver.

## Causes

An enzyme converts bilirubin into a form that can easily be removed from the
body. Crigler-Najjar syndrome occurs when this enzyme does not work correctly.
Without this enzyme, bilirubin can build up in the body and lead to:

    * Jaundice (yellow discoloration of skin and eyes)
    * Damage to the brain, muscles, and nerves

Type I Crigler-Najjar is the form of the disease that starts early in life.
Type II Crigler-Najjar syndrome may start later in life.

The syndrome runs in families (inherited). A child must receive a copy of the
defective gene from both parents to develop the severe form of the condition.
Parents who are carriers (with just one defective gene) have about half the
enzyme activity of a normal adult, but DO NOT have symptoms.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Confusion and changes in thinking
    * Yellow skin (jaundice) and yellow in the whites of the eyes (icterus), which begin a few days after birth and get worse over time
    * Lethargy
    * Poor feeding
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Tests of liver function include:

    * Conjugated (bound) bilirubin
    * Total bilirubin level
    * Unconjugated (unbound) bilirubin in blood.
    * Enzyme assay
    * Liver biopsy

## Treatment

Light treatment (phototherapy) is needed throughout a person's life. In
infants, this is done using bilirubin lights (bili or 'blue' lights).
Phototherapy does not work as well after age 4, because thickened skin blocks
the light.

A liver transplant can be done in some people with type I disease.

Blood transfusions may help control the amount of bilirubin in blood. Calcium
compounds are sometimes used to remove bilirubin in the gut.

The drug phenobarbitol is sometimes used to treat type II Crigler-Najjar
syndrome.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Milder forms of the disease (type II) do not cause liver damage or changes in
thinking during childhood. People who are affected with a mild form still have
jaundice, but they have fewer symptoms and less organ damage.

Infants with the severe form of the disease (type I) may continue to have
jaundice into adulthood, and may need daily treatment. If not treated, this
severe form of the disease will lead to death in childhood.

People with this condition who reach adulthood will develop brain damage due
to jaundice (kernicterus), even with regular treatment. The life expectancy
for type IÂ disease is 30 years.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications include:

    * A form of brain damage caused by jaundice (kernicterus)
    * Chronic yellow skin/eyes

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek genetic counseling if you are planning to have children and have a family
history of Crigler-Najjar.

Call your health care provider if you or your newborn infant has jaundice that
does not go away.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for people with a family history of Crigler-
Najjar syndrome who want to have children. Blood tests can identify people who
carry the gene.

## Alternative Names

Glucuronyl transferase deficiency (type I Crigler-Najjar); Arias syndrome
(type II Crigler-Najjar)

## Images

    * ![Liver anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8848t.jpg)Liver anatomy

## References

Downs E, Gourley GR. Neonatal jaundice and disorders of bilirubin metabolism.
In: Orkin SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan
and Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 4.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

Menchise AN, Balistreri WF. Metabolic diseases of the liver. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 357.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

