Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001559.htm    
                                Description: Newborn jaundice occurs when a baby has a high level of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is a yellow substance that the body creates when it replaces old red blood cells. The liver helps break down the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Newborn jaundice

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001559.htm

# Newborn jaundice

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Newborn jaundice occurs when a baby has a high level of bilirubin in the
blood. Bilirubin is a yellow substance that the body creates when it replaces
old red blood cells. The liver helps break down the substance so it can be
removed from the body in the stool.

A high level of bilirubin makes a baby's skin and whites of the eyes look
yellow. This is called jaundice.

## Causes

It is normal for a baby's bilirubin level to be a bit high after birth.

When the baby is growing in the mother's womb, the placenta removes bilirubin
from the baby's body. The placenta is the organ that grows during pregnancy to
feed the baby. After birth, the baby's liver starts doing this job. It may
take some time for the baby's liver to be able to do this efficiently.

Most newborns have some yellowing of the skin, or jaundice. This is called
physiological jaundice. It is often most noticeable when the baby is 2 to 4
days old. Most of the time, it does not cause problems and goes away within 2
weeks.

Two types of jaundice may occur in newborns who are breastfed. Both types are
usually harmless.

    * Breastfeeding jaundice is seen in breastfed babies during the first week of life. It is more likely to occur when babies do not nurse well or the mother's milk is slow to come in.
    * Breast milk jaundice may appear in some healthy, breastfed babies after day 7 of life. It is likely to peak during weeks 2 and 3, but may last at low levels for a month or more. The problem may be due to how substances in the breast milk affect the breakdown of bilirubin in the liver. Breast milk jaundice is different than breastfeeding jaundice. 

Severe newborn jaundice may occur if the baby has a condition that increases
the number of red blood cells that need to be replaced in the body, such as:

    * Abnormal blood cell shapes (such as sickle cell anemia)
    * Blood type mismatch between the mother and baby (Rh incompatibility)
    * Bleeding underneath the scalp (cephalohematoma) caused by a difficult delivery
    * Higher levels of red blood cells, which is more common in small-for-gestational age (SGA) babies and some twins
    * Infection
    * Lack of certain important proteins, called enzymes

Things that make it harder for the baby's body to remove bilirubin may also
lead to more severe jaundice, including:

    * Certain medicines
    * Infections present at birth, such as rubella, syphilis, and others
    * Diseases that affect the liver or biliary tract, such as cystic fibrosis or hepatitis
    * Low oxygen level (hypoxia)
    * Infections (sepsis)
    * Many different genetic or inherited disorders 

Babies who are born too early (premature) are more likely to develop jaundice
than full-term babies.

## Symptoms

Jaundice causes a yellow color of the skin. The color sometimes begins on the
face and then moves down to the chest, belly area, legs, and soles of the
feet.

Sometimes, infants with a severe jaundice may be very tired and feed poorly.

![Jaundiced infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2913.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Health care providers will watch for signs of jaundice at the hospital. After
the newborn goes home, family members will usually spot the jaundice.

Any infant who appears jaundiced should have bilirubin levels measured right
away. This can be done with a blood test.

Many hospitals check total bilirubin levels on all babies at about 24 hours of
age. Hospitals use probes that can estimate the bilirubin level just by
touching the skin. High readings need to be confirmed with blood tests.

Tests that will likely be done include:

    * Complete blood count
    * Coombs test
    * Reticulocyte count

Further testing may be needed for babies who need treatment or whose total
bilirubin level is rising more quickly than expected.

## Treatment

Treatment is not needed most of the time.

When treatment is needed, the type will depend on:

    * The baby's bilirubin level
    * How fast the level has been rising
    * Whether the baby was born early (babies born early are more likely to be treated at lower bilirubin levels)
    * How old the baby is 

A baby will need treatment if the bilirubin level is too high or is rising too
quickly.

A baby with jaundice needs to take in plenty of fluids with breast milk or
formula:

    * Feed the baby often (up to 12 times a day) to encourage frequent bowel movements. These help remove bilirubin through the stools. Ask your provider before giving your newborn extra formula.
    * In rare cases, a baby may receive extra fluids by IV.

Some newborns need to be treated before they leave the hospital. Others may
need to go back to the hospital when they are a few days old. Treatment in the
hospital usually lasts 1 to 2 days.

Sometimes, special blue lights are used on infants whose levels are very high.
These lights work by helping to break down bilirubin in the skin. This is
called phototherapy.

    * The infant is placed under these lights in a warm, enclosed bed to maintain a constant temperature.
    * The baby will wear only a diaper and special eye shades to protect the eyes.
    * Breastfeeding should be continued during phototherapy, if possible.
    * In rare cases, the baby may need an intravenous (IV) line to deliver fluids. 

If the bilirubin level is not too high or is not rising quickly, you can do
phototherapy at home with a fiberoptic blanket, which has tiny bright lights
in it. You may also use a bed that shines light up from the mattress.

    * You must keep the light therapy on your child's skin and feed your child every 2 to 3 hours (10 to 12 times a day).
    * A nurse will come to your home to teach you how to use the blanket or bed, and to check on your child.
    * The nurse will return daily to check your child's weight, feedings, skin, and bilirubin level.
    * You will be asked to count the number of wet and dirty diapers. 

In the most severe cases of jaundice, an exchange transfusion is required. In
this procedure, the baby's blood is replaced with fresh blood. Giving
intravenous immunoglobulin to babies who have severe jaundice may also be
effective in reducing bilirubin levels.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Newborn jaundice is not harmful most of the time. For most babies, jaundice
will get better without treatment within 1 to 2 weeks.

A very high level of bilirubin can damage the brain. This is called
kernicterus. The condition is almost always diagnosed before the level becomes
high enough to cause this damage. Treatment is usually effective.

## Possible Complications

Rare, but serious complications from high bilirubin levels include:

    * Cerebral palsy
    * Deafness
    * Kernicterus, which is brain damage from very high bilirubin levels 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

All babies should be seen by a provider in the first 5 days of life to check
for jaundice:

    * Infants who spend less than 24 hours in a hospital should be seen by age 72 hours.
    * Infants who are sent home between 24 and 48 hours should be seen again by age 96 hours.
    * Infants who are sent home between 48 and 72 hours should be seen again by age 120 hours. 

Jaundice is an emergency if the baby has a fever, has become listless, or is
not feeding well. Jaundice may be dangerous in high-risk newborns.

Jaundice is generally NOT dangerous in babies who were born full term and who
do not have other medical problems. Call the infant's provider if:

    * Jaundice is severe (the skin is bright yellow)
    * Jaundice continues to increase after the newborn visit, lasts longer than 2 weeks, or other symptoms develop
    * The feet, especially the soles, are yellow 

Talk with your baby's provider if you have questions.

## Prevention

In newborns, some degree of jaundice is normal and probably not preventable.
The risk for serious jaundice can often be reduced by feeding babies at least
8 to 12 times a day for the first several days and by carefully identifying
infants at highest risk.

All pregnant women should be tested for blood type and unusual antibodies. If
the mother is Rh negative, follow-up testing on the infant's cord is
recommended. This may also be done if the mother's blood type is O positive.

Careful monitoring of all babies during the first 5 days of life can prevent
most complications of jaundice. This includes:

    * Considering a baby's risk for jaundice
    * Checking bilirubin level in the first day or so
    * Scheduling at least one follow-up visit the first week of life for babies sent home from the hospital in 72 hours 

## Alternative Names

Jaundice of the newborn; Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia; Bili lights - jaundice;
Infant - yellow skin; Newborn - yellow skin

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge
    * Newborn jaundice - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Erythroblastosis fetalis - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1665t.jpg)Erythroblastosis fetalis - photomicrograph
    * ![Jaundiced infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2913t.jpg)Jaundiced infant
    * ![Exchange transfusion - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17092t.jpg)Exchange transfusion - series
    * ![Infant jaundice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8976t.jpg)Infant jaundice

## References

Cooper JD, Tersak JM. Hematology and oncology. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis._
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

Kaplan M, Wong RJ, Burgis JC, Sibley E, Stevenson DK. Neonatal jaundice and
liver diseases. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and
Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 91.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Digestive
system disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC,
Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 123.

Muchowski KE. Evaluation and treatment of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. _Am Fam
Physician_. 2014;89(11):873-878. PMID: 25077393
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25077393.

Rozance PJ, Rosenberg AA. The neonate. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 03/28/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

