Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000257.htm    
                                Description: Newborn jaundice is a common condition. It is caused by high levels of bilirubin (a yellow coloring) in your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Newborn jaundice - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000257.htm

# Newborn jaundice - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Newborn jaundice is a common condition. It is caused by high levels of
bilirubin (a yellow coloring) in your child's blood. This can make your
child's skin and sclera (the whites of their eyes) look yellow. Your child may
go home with some jaundice or may develop jaundice after going home.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider about
your child's jaundice.

## Questions

    * What causes jaundice in a newborn child?
    * How common is newborn jaundice?
    * Will the jaundice harm my child?
    * What are the treatments for jaundice?
    * How long does it take for the jaundice to go away?
    * How can I tell if the jaundice is getting worse?
    * How often should I feed my child?
    * What should I do if I am having trouble breastfeeding?
    * Does my child need blood transfusions for the jaundice?
    * Does my child need light therapy for the jaundice? Can this be done at home?
    * How do I arrange to have light therapy at home? Who do I call if I am having problems with the light therapy?
    * Do I need to use light therapy all day and night? How about when I am holding or feeding my child?
    * Can the light therapy harm my child?
    * When do we need to have a follow-up visit with my child's provider? 

## Alternative Names

Jaundice - what to ask your doctor; What to ask your doctor about newborn
jaundice

## Images

    * ![Infant jaundice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8976t.jpg)Infant jaundice

## References

Kaplan M, Wong RJ, Sibley E, Stevenson DK. Neonatal jaundice and liver
diseases. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 100.

Maheshwari A, Carlo WA. Digestive system disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Rozance PJ, Rosenberg AA. The neonate. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Read More

    * Biliary atresia
    * Newborn jaundice

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Jaundice

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

