Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007491.htm    
                                Description: Jaundice is a yellow color in the skin, mucous membranes, or eyes. The yellow color comes from bilirubin, a byproduct of old red blood cells. Jaundice is a sign of other diseases.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jaundice causes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007491.htm

# Jaundice causes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jaundice is a yellow color in the skin, mucous membranes, or eyes. The yellow
color comes from bilirubin, a byproduct of old red blood cells. Jaundice is a
sign of other diseases.

This article talks about the possible causes of jaundice in children and
adults. Newborn jaundice occurs in very young infants.

## Information

Jaundice is often a sign of a problem with the liver, gallbladder, or
pancreas. Jaundice can occur when too much bilirubin builds up in the body.
This may happen when:

    * There are too many red blood cells dying or breaking down and going to the liver.
    * The liver is overloaded or damaged.
    * The bilirubin from the liver is not able to properly move into the digestive tract. 

Conditions that can cause jaundice include:

    * Infections of the liver from a virus (hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, hepatitis D, and hepatitis E) or a parasite
    * Use of certain drugs (such as an overdose of acetaminophen) or exposure to poisons
    * Birth defects or disorders present since birth that makes it hard for the body to breakdown bilirubin (such as Gilbert syndrome, Dubin-Johnson syndrome, Rotor syndrome, or Crigler-Najjar syndrome)
    * Chronic liver disease
    * Gallstones or gallbladder disorders causing blockage of the bile duct
    * Blood disorders
    * Cancer of the pancreas
    * Bile buildup in the gallbladder because of pressure in the belly area during pregnancy (jaundice of pregnancy) 

## Alternative Names

Causes of jaundice; Cholestasis

## Images

    * ![Jaundice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19512t.jpg)Jaundice

## References

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

Wyatt JI, Haugk B. Liver, biliary system and pancreas. In: Cross SS, ed.
_Underwood's Pathology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 7/13/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

