Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000301.htm    
                                Description: Gilbert syndrome is a common disorder passed down through families. It affects the way bilirubin is processed by the liver, and may cause the skin to take on a yellow color (jaundice) at times.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gilbert syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000301.htm

# Gilbert syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gilbert syndrome is a common disorder passed down through families. It affects
the way bilirubin is processed by the liver, and may cause the skin to take on
a yellow color (jaundice) at times.

## Causes

Gilbert syndrome affects 1 in 10 people in some white groups. This condition
occurs due to an abnormal gene, which is passed from parents to their
children.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (mild jaundice) 

In people with Gilbert syndrome, jaundice most often appears during times of
exertion, stress, and infection, or when they do not eat.

## Exams and Tests

A blood test for bilirubin shows changes that occur with Gilbert syndrome. The
total bilirubin level is mildly elevated, with most being unconjugated
bilirubin. Most often the total level is less than 2 mg/dL, and the conjugated
bilirubin level is normal.

Gilbert syndrome is linked to a genetic problem, but genetic testing is not
needed.

## Treatment

No treatment is necessary for Gilbert syndrome.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Jaundice may come and go throughout life. It is more likely to appear during
illnesses such as colds. It does not cause health problems. However, it can
confuse the results of tests for jaundice.

## Possible Complications

There are no known complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have jaundice or pain in the abdomen
that does not go away.

## Prevention

There is no proven prevention.

## Alternative Names

Icterus intermittens juvenilis; Low-grade chronic hyperbilirubinemia; Familial
non-hemolytic-non-obstructive jaundice; Constitutional liver dysfunction;
Unconjugated benign bilirubinemia; Gilbert disease

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
test results. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

Theise ND. Liver and gallbladder. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Fausto N, Aster JC,
eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

