Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003479.htm    
                                Description: The bilirubin blood test measures the level of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is a yellowish pigment found in bile, a fluid made by the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bilirubin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003479.htm

# Bilirubin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The bilirubin blood test measures the level of bilirubin in the blood.
Bilirubin is a yellowish pigment found in bile, a fluid made by the liver.

Bilirubin can also be measured with a urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink for at least 4 hours before the test. Your health
care provider may instruct you to stop taking medicines that affect the test.

Many drugs may change the bilirubin level in your blood. Make sure your
provider knows which medicines you are taking.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

A small amount of older red blood cells are replaced by new blood cells every
day. Bilirubin is left after these older blood cells are removed. The liver
helps break down bilirubin so that it can be removed from the body in the
stool.

A level of bilirubin in the blood of 2.0 mg/dL can lead to jaundice. Jaundice
is a yellow color in the skin, mucus membranes, or eyes.

Jaundice is the most common reason to check bilirubin level. The test will
likely be ordered when:

    * The provider is concerned about a newborn's jaundice (most newborns have some jaundice)
    * Jaundice develops in older infants, children, and adults

A bilirubin test is also ordered when the provider suspects a person has liver
or gallbladder problems.

## Normal Results

It is normal to have some bilirubin in the blood. A normal level is:

    * Direct (also called conjugated) bilirubin: less than 0.3 mg/dL (less than 5.1 Âµmol/L)
    * Total bilirubin: 0.1 to 1.2 mg/dL (1.71 to 20.5 Âµmol/L)

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In newborns, bilirubin level is higher for the first few days of life. Your
child's provider must consider the following when deciding whether your baby's
bilirubin level is too high:

    * How fast the level has been rising
    * Whether the baby was born early
    * The baby's age

Jaundice can also occur when more red blood cells than normal are broken down.
This can be caused by:

    * A blood disorder called erythroblastosis fetalis
    * A red blood cell disorder called hemolytic anemia
    * Transfusion reaction in which red blood cells that were given in a transfusion are destroyed by the person's immune system

The following liver problems may also cause jaundice or a high bilirubin
level:

    * Scarring of the liver (cirrhosis)
    * Swollen and inflamed liver (hepatitis)
    * Other liver disease
    * Disorder in which bilirubin is not processed normally by the liver (Gilbert disease)

The following problems with gallbladder or bile ducts may cause higher
bilirubin levels:

    * Abnormal narrowing of the common bile duct (biliary stricture)
    * Cancer of the pancreas or gallbladder
    * Gallstones

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins vary in size
from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood collecting under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Total bilirubin - blood; Unconjugated bilirubin - blood; Indirect bilirubin -
blood; Conjugated bilirubin - blood; Direct bilirubin - blood; Jaundice -
bilirubin blood test; Hyperbilirubinemia - bilirubin blood test

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Bilirubin (total, direct [conjugated] and indirect
[unconjugated]) -Â serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests
and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:196-198.

Pincus MR, Tierno PM, Gleeson E, Bowne WB, Bluth MH. Evaluation of liver
function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap
21.

Pratt DS. Liver chemistry and function tests. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. S _leisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

## Review Date 1/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

