Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000210.htm    
                                Description: Jaundice is a yellow color of the skin, mucus membranes, or eyes. The yellow coloring comes from bilirubin, a byproduct of old red blood cells. Jaundice can be a symptom of several health problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jaundice

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000210.htm

# Jaundice

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jaundice is a yellow color of the skin, mucus membranes, or eyes. The yellow
coloring comes from bilirubin, a byproduct of old red blood cells. Jaundice
can be a symptom of several health problems.

## Causes

A small number of red blood cells in your body die each day, and are replaced
by new ones. The liver removes the old blood cells. This creates bilirubin.
The liver helps break down bilirubin so that it can be removed by the body
through the stool.

Jaundice can occur when too much bilirubin builds up in the body.

Jaundice can occur if:

    * Too many red blood cells are dying or breaking down and going to the liver.
    * The liver is overloaded or damaged.
    * The bilirubin from the liver is unable to properly move into the digestive tract. 

Jaundice is often a sign of a problem with the liver, gallbladder, or
pancreas. Things that can cause jaundice include:

    * Infections, most commonly viral
    * Use of certain drugs
    * Cancer of the liver, bile ducts or pancreas
    * Blood disorders, gallstones, birth defects and a number of other medical conditions 

## Symptoms

Jaundice may appear suddenly or develop slowly over time. Symptoms of jaundice
commonly include:

    * Yellow skin and the white part of the eyes (sclera) -- when jaundice is more severe, these areas may look brown
    * Yellow color inside the mouth
    * Dark or brown-colored urine
    * Pale or clay-colored stools
    * Itching (pruritis) usually occurs with jaundice 

Note: If your skin is yellow and the whites of your eyes are not yellow, you
may not have jaundice. Your skin can turn a yellow-to-orange color if you eat
a lot of beta carotene, the orange pigment in carrots.

Other symptoms depend on the disorder causing the jaundice:

    * Cancers may produce no symptoms, or there may be fatigue, weight loss, or other symptoms.
    * Hepatitis may produce nausea, vomiting, fatigue, or other symptoms. 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show liver
swelling.

A bilirubin blood test will be done. Other tests may include:

    * Hepatitis virus panel to look for infection of the liver
    * Liver function tests to determine how well the liver is working
    * Complete blood count to check for low blood count or anemia
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
    * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTCA)
    * Liver biopsy
    * Cholesterol level
    * Prothrombin time

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the jaundice.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop jaundice.

## Alternative Names

Conditions associated with jaundice; Yellow skin and eyes; Skin - yellow;
Icterus; Eyes - yellow; Yellow jaundice

## Images

    * ![Jaundice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19512t.jpg)Jaundice
    * ![Jaundiced infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2913t.jpg)Jaundiced infant
    * ![Cirrhosis of the liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8849t.jpg)Cirrhosis of the liver
    * ![Bili lights](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17092t.jpg)Bili lights

## References

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Fargo MV, Grogan SP, Saquil A. Evaluation of jaundice in adults. _Am Fam
Physician_. 2017;95(3):164-168. PMID: 28145671
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28145671.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

Taylor TA, Wheatley MA. Jaundice. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 25.

## Review Date 3/25/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

