Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007309.htm    
                                Description: Bilirubin encephalopathy is a rare neurological condition that occurs in some newborns with severe jaundice.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bilirubin encephalopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007309.htm

# Bilirubin encephalopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bilirubin encephalopathy is a rare neurological condition that occurs in some
newborns with severe jaundice.

## Causes

Bilirubin encephalopathy (BE) is caused by very high levels of bilirubin.
Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is created as the body gets rid of old red
blood cells. High levels of bilirubin in the body can cause the skin to look
yellow (jaundice).

If the level of bilirubin is very high or a baby is very ill, the substance
will move out of the blood and collect in the brain tissue if it is not bound
to albumin (protein) in the blood. This can lead to problems such as brain
damage and hearing loss. The term "kernicterus" refers to the yellow staining
caused by bilirubin. This is seen in parts of the brain on autopsy.

This condition most often develops in the first week of life, but may be seen
up until the third week. Some newborns with Rh hemolytic disease are at high
risk for severe jaundice that can lead to this condition. Rarely, BE can
develop in seemingly healthy babies.

## Symptoms

The symptoms depend on the stage of BE. Not all babies with kernicterus on
autopsy have had definite symptoms.

Early stage:

    * Extreme jaundice
    * Absent startle reflex
    * Poor feeding or sucking
    * Extreme sleepiness (lethargy) and low muscle tone (hypotonia)

Middle stage:

    * High-pitched cry
    * Irritability
    * May have arched back with neck hyperextended backwards, high muscle tone (hypertonia)
    * Poor feeding

Late stage:

    * Stupor or coma
    * No feeding
    * Shrill cry
    * Muscle rigidity, markedly arched back with neck hyperextended backwards
    * Seizures

## Exams and Tests

A blood test will show a high bilirubin level (greater than 20 to 25 mg/dL).
However, there is not a direct link between bilirubin level and degree of
injury.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on how old the baby is (in hours) and whether the baby has
any risk factors (such as prematurity). It may include:

    * Light therapy (phototherapy)
    * Exchange transfusions (removing the child's blood and replacing it with fresh donor blood or plasma)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

BEÂ is a serious condition. Many infants with late-stage nervous system
complications die.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Permanent brain damage
    * Hearing loss
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if your baby has signs of this condition.

## Prevention

Treating jaundice or conditions that may lead to it can help prevent this
problem. Infants with the first signs of jaundice have bilirubin level
measured within 24 hours. If the level is high, the infant should be screened
for diseases that involve the destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis).

All newborns have a follow-up appointment within 2 to 3 days after leaving the
hospital. This is very important for late preterm or early term babies (born
more than 2 to 3 weeks before their due date).

## Alternative Names

Bilirubin-induced neurologic dysfunction (BIND); Kernicterus

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## Images

    * ![Kernicterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22694t.jpg)Kernicterus

## References

Hamati AI. Neurological complications of systemic disease: children. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 59.

Hansen TWR. Pathophysiology of kernicterus. In: Polin RA, Abman SH, Rowitch,
DH, Benitz WE, Fox WW, eds. _Fetal and Neonatal Physiology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 164.

Kaplan M, Wong RJ, Sibley E, Stevenson DK. Neonatal jaundice and liver
disease. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 100.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Anemia and hyperbilirubinemia. In: Marcdante KJ,
Kliegman RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Elsevier;
2019:chap 62.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

