Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000995.htm    
                                Description: Jaundice is a condition that causes the skin and whites of the eyes to turn yellow. There are two common problems that may occur in newborns receiving breast milk.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jaundice and breastfeeding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000995.htm

# Jaundice and breastfeeding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jaundice is a condition that causes the skin and whites of the eyes to turn
yellow. There are two common problems that may occur in newborns receiving
breast milk.

    * If jaundice seen after the first week of life in a breastfed baby who is otherwise healthy, the condition may be called "breast milk jaundice."
    * At times, jaundice occurs when your baby does not get enough breast milk, instead of from the breast milk itself. This is called breastfeeding failure jaundice.

## Causes

Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is produced as the body recycles old red
blood cells. The liver helps break down bilirubin so that it can be removed
from the body in the stool.

It can be normal for newborn babies to be a little yellow between days 1 and 5
of life. The color most often peaks around day 3 or 4.

Breast milk jaundice is seen after the first week of life. It is likely caused
by:

    * Factors in a mother's milk that help a baby absorb bilirubin from the intestine
    * Factors that keep certain proteins in the baby's liver from breaking down bilirubin

Sometimes, jaundice occurs when your baby does not get enough breast milk,
instead of from the breast milk itself. This kind of jaundice is different
because it starts in the first few days of life. It is called "breastfeeding
failure jaundice," "breast-non-feeding jaundice," or even "starvation
jaundice."

    * Babies who are born early (before 37 or 38 weeks) are not always able to feed well.
    * Breastfeeding failure or breast-non-feeding jaundice may also occur when feedings are scheduled by the clock (such as, every 3 hours for 10 minutes) or when babies who show signs of hunger are given pacifiers.

Breast milk jaundice may run in families. It occurs just as often in males and
females and affects about a third of all newborns who get only their mother's
milk.

## Symptoms

Your child's skin, and possibly the whites of the eyes (sclerae), will look
yellow.

## Exams and Tests

Laboratory tests that may be done include:

    * Bilirubin level (total and direct)
    * Blood smear to look at blood cell shapes and sizes
    * Blood type
    * Complete blood count
    * Reticulocyte count (number of slightly immature red blood cells) 

In some cases, a blood test to check for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase
(G6PD) may be done. G6PD is a protein that helps red blood cells work
properly.

These tests are done to be sure that there are no other, more dangerous causes
of the jaundice.

Another test that may be considered consists of stopping breastfeeding and
giving formula for 12 to 24 hours. This is done to see if the bilirubin level
goes down. This test is not always necessary.

## Treatment

Treatment will depend on:

    * Your baby's bilirubin level, which naturally rises during the first week of life
    * How fast the bilirubin level has been going up
    * Whether your baby was born early
    * How your baby has been feeding
    * How old your baby is now

Often, the bilirubin level is normal for the baby's age. Newborns normally
have higher levels than older children and adults. In this case, no treatment
is needed, other than close follow-up.

You can prevent the kind of jaundice that is caused by too little
breastfeeding by making sure your baby is getting enough milk.

    * Feed about 10 to 12 times each day, starting on the first day. Feed whenever baby is alert, sucking on the hands, and smacking the lips. This is how babies let you know they are hungry.
    * If you wait until your baby cries, feeding will not go as well.
    * Give babies unlimited time at each breast, as long as they are sucking and swallowing steadily. Full babies will relax, unclench their hands, and drift off to sleep.

If breastfeeding is not going well, get help from a lactation consultant or
your doctor as soon as possible. Babies born before 37 or 38 weeks most often
need extra help. Their moms often need to express or pump to make enough milk
while they are learning to breastfeed.

Nursing or pumping more often (up to 12 times a day) will increase the amount
of milk the baby gets. They can cause the bilirubin level to drop.

Ask your doctor before deciding to give your newborn formula.

    * It is best to keep breastfeeding. Babies need their mothers' milk. Although a baby full of formula can be less demanding, formula feeding may cause you to make less milk.
    * If the milk supply is low because baby's demand has been low (for example, if baby was born early), you may have to use formula for a brief time. You should also use a pump to help make more breast milk until baby is better able to nurse.
    * Spending "skin to skin" time can also help babies feed better and help moms make more milk. 

In some cases, if babies aren't able to feed well, fluids are given through a
vein to help increase their fluid levels and lower bilirubin levels.

To help break down the bilirubin if it is too high, your baby may be placed
under special blue lights (phototherapy). You may be able to do phototherapy
at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The baby should recover fully with the right monitoring and treatment. The
jaundice should go away by 12 weeks of life.

## Possible Complications

In true breast milk jaundice, there are no complications in most cases.
However, babies with very high bilirubin levels who do not get the right
medical care can have severe effects.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider right away if you are breastfeeding and your
baby's skin or eyes become yellow (jaundiced).

## Prevention

Breast milk jaundice cannot be prevented, and it is not harmful. But when a
baby's color is yellow, you must have the baby's bilirubin level checked right
away. If the bilirubin level is high, it is important to make sure there are
no other medical problems.

## Alternative Names

Hyperbilirubinemia - breast milk; Breast milk jaundice; Breastfeeding failure
jaundice

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## Images

    * ![Bili lights](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17092t.jpg)Bili lights
    * ![Jaundiced infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2913t.jpg)Jaundiced infant
    * ![Infant jaundice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8976t.jpg)Infant jaundice

## References

Furman L, Schanler RJ. Breastfeeding. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's
Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 67.

Holmes AV, McLeod AY, Bunik M. ABM Clinical Protocol #5: peripartum
breastfeeding management for the healthy mother and infant at term, revision
2013. _Breastfeed Med_. 2013;8(6):469-473. PMID: 24320091
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24320091.

Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM. Breastfeeding infants with problems. In: Lawrence
RA, Lawrence RM, eds. _Breastfeeding: A Guide for the Medical Profession_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Newton ER. Lactation and breastfeeding. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

