Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000296.htm    
                                Description: Your baby has been treated in the hospital for newborn jaundice. This article tells you what you need to know when your baby comes home.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Newborn jaundice - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000296.htm

# Newborn jaundice - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your baby has been treated in the hospital for newborn jaundice. This article
tells you what you need to know when your baby comes home.

## When Your Child Was in the Hospital

Your baby has newborn jaundice. This common condition is caused by high levels
of bilirubin in the blood. Your child's skin and sclera (whites of his eyes)
will look yellow.

Some newborns need to be treated before they leave the hospital. Others may
need to go back to the hospital when they are a few days old. Treatment in the
hospital most often lasts 1 to 2 days. Your child needs treatment when their
bilirubin level is too high or rising too quickly.

To help break down the bilirubin, your child will be placed under bright
lights (phototherapy) in a warm, enclosed bed. The infant will wear only a
diaper and special eye shades. Your baby may have an intravenous (IV) line to
give them fluids.

Rarely, your baby may need treatment called a double volume blood exchange
transfusion. This is used when the baby's bilirubin level is very high.

Unless there are other problems, your child will be able to feed (by breast or
bottle) normally. Your child should feed every 2 to 2 Â½ hours (10 to 12 times
a day).

The health care provider may stop phototherapy and send your child home when
their bilirubin level is low enough to be safe. Your child's bilirubin level
will need to be checked in the provider's office, 24 hours after therapy
stops, to make sure the level is not rising again.

Possible side effects of phototherapy are watery diarrhea, dehydration, and
skin rash that will go away once the therapy stops.

## What to Expect at Home

If your child did not have jaundice at birth but now has it, you should call
your provider. Bilirubin levels are generally the highest when a newborn is 3
to 5 days old.

If the bilirubin level is not too high or not rising quickly, you can do
phototherapy at home with a fiber optic blanket, which has tiny bright lights
in it. You may also use a bed that shines light up from the mattress. A nurse
will come to your home to teach you how to use the blanket or bed and to check
on your child.

The nurse will return daily to check your child's:

    * Weight
    * Intake of breast milk or formula
    * Number of wet and poopy (stool) diapers
    * Skin, to see how far down (head to toe) the yellow color goes
    * Bilirubin level 

You must keep the light therapy on your child's skin and feed your child every
2 to 3 hours (10 to 12 times a day). Feeding prevents dehydration and helps
bilirubin leave the body.

Therapy will continue until your baby's bilirubin level lowers enough to be
safe. Your baby's provider will want to check the level again in 2 to 3 days.

If you are having trouble breastfeeding, contact a breastfeeding nurse
specialist.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your baby's health care provider if the infant:

    * Has a yellow color that goes away, but then returns after treatment stop.
    * Has a yellow color that lasts for more than 2 to 3 weeks

Also call your baby's provider if you have concerns, if the jaundice is
getting worse, or the baby:

    * Is lethargic (hard to wake up), less responsive, or fussy
    * Refuses the bottle or breast for more than 2 feedings in a row
    * Is losing weight
    * Has watery diarrhea

## Alternative Names

Jaundice of the newborn - discharge; Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia - discharge;
Breastfeeding jaundice - discharge; Physiologic jaundice - discharge

## Images

    * ![Exchange transfusion - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17092t.jpg)Exchange transfusion - series
    * ![Infant jaundice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8976t.jpg)Infant jaundice

## References

Kaplan M, Wong RJ, Sibley E, Stevenson DK. Neonatal jaundice and liver
diseases. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 100.

Maheshwari A, Carlo WA. Digestive system disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Rozance PJ, Rosenberg AA. The neonate. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Read More

    * Biliary atresia
    * Bili lights
    * Bilirubin blood test
    * Bilirubin encephalopathy
    * Exchange transfusion
    * Jaundice and breastfeeding
    * Newborn jaundice
    * Premature infant
    * Rh incompatibility

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Common Infant and Newborn Problems
    * Jaundice

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

