Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000242.htm    
                                Description: Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS) is a disorder passed down through families (inherited). In this condition, you may have mild jaundice throughout life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dubin-Johnson syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000242.htm

# Dubin-Johnson syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS) is a disorder passed down through families
(inherited). In this condition, you may have mild jaundice throughout life.

## Causes

DJS is a very rare genetic disorder. In order to inherit the condition, a
child must get a copy of the defective gene from both parents.

The syndrome interferes with the body's ability to move bilirubin from the
liver. When the liver breaks down worn out red blood cells, it produces
bilirubin. It normally moves through the bile produced by the liver and into
the bile ducts, past the gallbladder, and into the digestive system.

When bilirubin is not properly processed, it builds up in the bloodstream.
This causes the skin and the whites of the eyes to turn yellow. This is called
jaundice. Severely high levels of bilirubin can damage the brain and other
organs.

People with DJS have lifelong mild jaundice that may be made worse by:

    * Alcohol
    * Birth control pills
    * Environmental factors that affect the liver
    * Infection
    * Pregnancy

## Symptoms

Mild jaundice, which may not appear until puberty or adulthood, is most often
the only symptom of DJS.

## Exams and Tests

The following tests can help diagnose this syndrome:

    * Liver biopsy
    * Liver enzyme levels (blood test)
    * Serum bilirubin
    * Urinary coproporphyrin levels

## Treatment

No specific treatment is required.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is very positive. DJS generally does not shorten a person's
lifespan.

## Possible Complications

Complications are unusual, but may include the following:

    * Reduced liver function
    * Severe jaundice

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if any of the following occurs:

    * Jaundice is severe
    * Jaundice gets worse over time
    * You also have abdominal pain or other symptoms (which may be a sign that another disorder is causing the jaundice)

## Prevention

If you have a family history of DJS, genetic counseling may be helpful if you
plan to have children.

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

