Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002974.htm    
                                Description: Knee joint replacement is a surgery to replace a knee joint with a man-made artificial joint. The artificial joint is called a prosthesis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee joint replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002974.htm

# Knee joint replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Knee joint replacement is a surgery to replace a knee joint with a man-made
artificial joint. The artificial joint is called a prosthesis.

## Description

Damaged cartilage and bone are removed from the knee joint. Man-made pieces
are then placed in the knee.

![Knee joint replacement
prosthesis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9494.jpg)

These pieces may be placed in the following places in the knee joint:

    * Lower end of the thigh bone -- This bone is called the femur. The replacement part is usually made of metal.
    * Upper end of the shin bone, which is the large bone in your lower leg -- This bone is called the tibia. The replacement part is usually made from metal and strong plastic.
    * Back side of your kneecap -- Your kneecap is called the patella. The replacement part is usually made from a strong plastic. 

You will not feel any pain during the surgery. You will have one of these two
types of anesthesia:

    * General anesthesia -- This means you will be asleep and unable to feel pain.
    * Regional (spinal or epidural) anesthesia -- Medicine is put into your back to make you numb below your waist. You will also get medicine to make you sleepy. And you may get medicine that will make you forget about the procedure, even though you are not fully asleep. 

After you receive anesthesia, your surgeon will make a cut over your knee to
open it up. This cut is often 8 to 10 inches (20 to 25 centimeters) long. Then
your surgeon will:

    * Move your kneecap (patella) out of the way, then cut the ends of your thigh bone and shin (lower leg) bone to fit the replacement part.
    * Cut the underside of your kneecap to prepare it for the new pieces that will be attached there.
    * Fasten the two parts of the prosthesis to your bones. One part will be attached to the end of your thigh bone and the other part will be attached to your shin bone. The pieces can be attached using bone cement or screws.
    * Attach the underside of your kneecap. A special bone cement is used to attach this part.
    * Repair your muscles and tendons around the new joint and close the surgical cut. 

The surgery takes about 2 hours.

Most artificial knees have both metal and plastic parts. Some surgeons now use
different materials, including metal on metal, ceramic on ceramic, or ceramic
on plastic.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The most common reason to have a knee joint replaced is to relieve severe
arthritis pain. Your doctor may recommend knee joint replacement if:

    * You are having pain from knee arthritis that keeps you from sleeping or doing normal activities.
    * You cannot walk and take care of yourself.
    * Your knee pain has not improved with other treatment.
    * You understand what surgery and recovery will be like. 

Most of the time, knee joint replacement is done in people age 60 and older.
Younger people who have a knee joint replaced may put extra stress on the
artificial knee and cause it to wear out early and not last as long.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what drugs you are taking, even drugs,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * Prepare your home.
    * Two weeks before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin), or clopidogrel (Plavix), and other drugs.
    * You may also need to stop taking medicines that can make your body more likely to get an infection. These include methotrexate, Enbrel, or other medicines that suppress your immune system.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon may ask you to see the provider who treats you for these conditions to see if it is safe for you to have the surgery.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you smoke, you need to stop. Ask your providers for help. Smoking will slow down wound and bone healing. Your recovery may not be as good if you keep smoking.
    * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you have before your surgery.
    * You may want to visit a physical therapist to learn some exercises to do before surgery.
    * Set up your home to make everyday tasks easier.
    * Practice using a cane, walker, crutches, or a wheelchair correctly. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the drugs you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will stay in the hospital for 1 to 2 days. During that time, you will
recover from your anesthesia and from the surgery itself. You will be asked to
start moving and walking as soon as the first day after surgery.

Full recovery will take 4 months to a year.

Some people need a short stay in a rehabilitation center after they leave the
hospital and before they go home. At a rehabilitation center, you will learn
how to safely do your daily activities on your own.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The results of a total knee replacement are often excellent. The operation
relieves pain for most people. Most people DO NOT need help walking after they
fully recover.

Most artificial knee joints last 10 to 15 years. Some last as long as 20 years
before they loosen and need to be replaced again. Total knee replacements can
be replaced again if they get loose or wear out. However, in most cases the
results are not as good as the first time. It is important not to have the
surgery too early so you will need another surgery at a young age or have it
too late when you will not benefit the most.

## Alternative Names

Total knee replacement; Knee arthroplasty; Knee replacement - total;
Tricompartmental knee replacement; Subvastus knee replacement; Knee
replacement - minimally invasive; Knee arthroplasty - minimally invasive; TKA
- knee replacement; Osteoarthritis - replacement; OA - knee replacement

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor 
    * Knee joint replacement - discharge 
    * Preventing falls
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Knee joint replacement prosthesis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9494t.jpg)Knee joint replacement prosthesis
    * ![Knee joint replacement - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23234t.jpg)Knee joint replacement - series

## References

American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (AAOS). Treatment of osteoarthritis of
the knee: evidence-based guideline 2nd edition (summary).
www.aaos.org/research/guidelines/TreatmentofOsteoarthritisoftheKneeGuideline.pdf.
Updated May 18, 2013. Accessed August 16, 2018.

Feng JE, Novikov D, Anoushiravani AA, Schwarzkopf R. Total knee arthroplasty:
improving outcomes with a multidisciplinary approach. _J Multidiscip Healthc_.
2018;11:63-73. PMID: 29416347 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29416347.

Mihalko WM. Arthroplasty of the knee. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee
Replacement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeReplacement_thumb.jpg)Knee
Replacement _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

