Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000368.htm    
                                Description: There are many things you can do to help decide whether to have knee or hip replacement surgery or not. These may include reading about the operation and talking to others with knee or hip problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deciding to have knee or hip replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000368.htm

# Deciding to have knee or hip replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There are many things you can do to help decide whether to have knee or hip
replacement surgery or not. These may include reading about the operation and
talking to others with knee or hip problems.

A key step is talking to your health care provider about your quality of life
and goals for surgery.

Surgery may or may not be the right choice for you. Only careful thought can
help you make a decision.

## Who Benefits From Knee or Hip Replacement Surgery?

The most common reason to have a knee or hip replaced is to provide relief
from severe arthritis pain that limits your activities. Your provider may
recommend replacement surgery when:

    * Pain prevents you from sleeping or doing normal activities.
    * You cannot move around by yourself and have to use a cane or walker.
    * You cannot safely care for yourself due to your level of pain and disability.
    * Your pain has not improved with other treatment.
    * You understand the surgery and recovery involved. 

Some people are more willing to accept the limits knee or hip pain places on
them. They will wait until the problems are more severe. Others will want to
have joint replacement surgery in order to continue with sports and other
activities they enjoy.

Knee or hip replacements are most often done in people who are 60 and older.
However, many people who have this surgery are younger. When a knee or hip
replacement is done, the new joint may wear out over time. This is more likely
to occur in people with more active lifestyles or in those who will likely
live longer after surgery. Unfortunately, if a second joint replacement is
needed in the future, it may not work as well as the first.

## Is There any Harm in Waiting?

For the most part, knee and hip replacement are elective procedures. This
means these surgeries are done when you are ready to seek relief for your
pain, not for emergency medical reason.

In most cases, delaying surgery should not make joint replacement less
effective if you choose to have it in the future. In some cases, the provider
may strongly recommend surgery if deformity or extreme wear and tear on the
joint affects other parts of your body.

Also, if pain is preventing you from moving around well, the muscles around
your joints may become weaker and your bones may become thinner. This may
affect your recovery time if you have surgery at a later date.

## Why you may not be Able to Have Replacement Surgery

Your provider may recommend against knee or hip replacement surgery if you
have any of the following:

    * Extreme obesity (weighing over 300 pounds or 135 kilograms)
    * Weak quadriceps, the muscles in the front of your thighs, that can make it very hard for you to walk and use your knee
    * Unhealthy skin around the joint
    * Previous infection of your knee or hip
    * Previous surgery or injuries that do not allow for a successful joint replacement
    * Heart or lung problems, which make major surgery more risky
    * Unhealthy behaviors such as drinking, drug use, or high risk activities
    * Other health conditions that may not allow you to recover well from joint replacement surgery 

## References

Felson DT. Treatment of osteoarthritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE,
McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 100.

Ferguson RJ, Palmer AJ, Taylor A, Porter ML, Malchau H, Glyn-Jones S. Hip
replacement. _Lancet_. 2018;392(10158):1662-1671. PMID: 30496081
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30496081.

Harkess JW, Crockarell JR. Arthroplasty of the hip. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Mihalko WM. Arthroplasty of the knee. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hip Replacement
    * Knee Replacement

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

