Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000170.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to replace some or all of the bones that make up your knee joint. This article tells you how to care for your new knee when you go home from the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee joint replacement - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000170.htm

# Knee joint replacement - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to replace some or all of the bones that make up your knee
joint. This article tells you how to care for your new knee when you go home
from the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had knee replacement surgery to replace all or part of the bones that make
up your knee joint. Your surgeon removed and reshaped your damaged bones, then
put your new artificial knee joint in place. You should have received pain
medicine and learned how to take care of your new knee joint.

## What to Expect at Home

By the time you go home, you should be able to walk with a walker or crutches
without needing much help. You may need to use these walking aids for up to 3
months. You should also be able to dress yourself with only a little help and
get into and out of your bed or a chair by yourself. You should also be able
to use the toilet without much help.

Over time, you should be able to return to your former level of activity. You
will need to avoid some sports, such as downhill skiing or contact sports like
football and soccer. But, you should be able to do low impact activities, such
as hiking, gardening, swimming, playing tennis, and golfing.

A physical therapist may visit you at home to make sure your home is set up
safely for you as you recover.

## Home Setup

Your bed should be low enough for your feet to touch the floor when you sit on
the edge of the bed. Keep tripping hazards out of your home.

    * Learn how to prevent falls. Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another. Remove loose throw rugs. DO NOT keep small pets in your home. Fix any uneven flooring in doorways. Use good lighting.
    * Make your bathroom safe. Put hand rails in the bathtub or shower and next to the toilet. Place a slip-proof mat in the bathtub or shower.
    * DO NOT carry anything when you are walking around. You may need your hands to help you balance. 

Put things where they are easy to reach.

Set up your home so that you do not have to climb steps. Some tips are:

    * Set up a bed or use bedroom on the same floor.
    * Have a bathroom or a portable commode on the same floor where you spend most of your day. 

You may need help with bathing, using the toilet, cooking, running errands and
shopping, going to your medical appointments, and exercising. If you do not
have a caregiver to help you at home for the first 1 or 2 weeks, ask your
health care provider about having a trained caregiver come to your home.

## Activity

Use your walker or crutches as your provider told you to use them. Take short
walks often. Wear shoes that fit well and have nonskid soles. DO NOT wear high
heels or slippers while you are recovering from surgery.

Do the exercises your physical therapist taught you. Your provider and
physical therapist will help you decide when you no longer need crutches, a
cane, or a walker.

Ask your provider or physical therapist about using a stationary bicycle and
swimming as extra exercises to build your muscles and bones.

Try not to sit for more than 45 minutes at a time. Get up and move around
after 45 minutes if you will be sitting some more.

## Precautions

To prevent injury to your new knee:

    * DO NOT twist or pivot your body when you are using a walker.
    * DO NOT climb up on a ladder or stepstool.
    * DO NOT kneel down to pick up anything.
    * When lying in bed, keep a pillow under your heel or ankle, NOT your knee. It is important to keep your knee straight. Try to stay in positions that do not bend your knee. 

Your provider or physical therapist will tell you when you can start putting
weight on your leg and how much weight is OK. When you can start bearing
weight will depend on what kind of knee joint you have. It is important not to
start bearing weight until your doctor tells you it is safe to.

DO NOT carry anything over 5 to 10 pounds (2.25 to 4.5 kilograms).

Ice your knee 30 minutes before and 30 minutes after activity or exercises.
Icing will decrease swelling.

## Wound Care

Keep the dressing (bandage) on your incision clean and dry. Change the
dressing only if your surgeon told you to. If you do change it, follow these
steps:

    * Wash your hands well with soap and water.
    * Remove the dressing carefully. DO NOT pull hard. If you need to, soak some of the dressing with sterile water or saline to help loosen it.
    * Soak some clean gauze with saline and wipe from one end of the incision to the other. DO NOT wipe back and forth over the same area.
    * Dry the incision the same way with clean, dry gauze. Wipe or pat in just 1 direction.
    * Check your wound for signs of infection. These include severe swelling and redness and drainage that has a bad odor.
    * Apply a new dressing the way your doctor or nurse showed you. 

Sutures (stitches) or staples will be removed about 10 to 14 days after
surgery. You may shower 5 to 6 days after surgery, as long as your surgeon
says you can. When you can shower, let the water run over the incision but do
not scrub your incision or let the water beat down on it. DO NOT soak in a
bathtub, hot tub, or swimming pool.

You may have bruising around your wound. This is normal, and it will go away
on its own. The skin around your incision may be a little red. This is normal
too.

## Self-care

Your provider will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled
when you go home so you have it when you need it. Take your pain medicine when
you start having pain. Waiting too long to take it will allow your pain to get
more severe than it should.

In the early part of your recovery, taking pain medicine about 30 minutes
before you increase your activity can help control pain.

You may be asked to wear special compression stockings on your legs for about
6 weeks. These will help prevent blood clots from forming. You may also need
to take blood thinners for 2 to 4 weeks to lower your risk for blood clots.

Take all your medicines the way you have been told.

    * DO NOT double up on your pain medicine if you miss a dose.
    * If you are taking blood thinners, ask your provider whether you can also take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or other anti-inflammatory drugs. 

You may need to avoid sexual activity for a while. Your provider will tell you
when it is OK to start again.

People who have a prosthesis, such as an artificial joint, need to carefully
protect themselves against infection. You should carry a medical
identification card in your wallet that says you have a prosthesis. You may
need to take antibiotics before any dental work or invasive medical
procedures. Make sure to check with your provider, and tell your dentist or
other surgeons about your knee replacement.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Blood that is soaking through your dressing and the bleeding does not stop when you put pressure on the area
    * Pain that does not go away after you take your pain medicine
    * Swelling or pain in your calf muscle
    * Darker than normal foot or toes or they are cool to touch
    * Yellowish discharge from your incision
    * A temperature higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Swelling around your incision
    * Redness around your incision
    * Chest pain
    * Chest congestion
    * Breathing problems or shortness of breath 

## Alternative Names

Total knee replacement - discharge; Knee arthroplasty - discharge; Knee
replacement - total - discharge; Tricompartmental knee replacement -
discharge; Osteoarthritis - knee replacement discharge

## References

Ellen MI, Forbush DR, Groomes TE. Total knee arthroplasty. In: Frontera WR,
Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 80.

Mihalko WM. Arthroplasty of the knee. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 7.

## Read More

    * Knee joint replacement

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor 
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Knee Replacement

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

