Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000233.htm    
                                Description: You are going to have a hip or knee joint replacement surgery to replace all or part of your hip or knee joint with an artificial device (a prosthesis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000233.htm

# Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are going to have a hip or knee joint replacement surgery to replace all
or part of your hip or knee joint with an artificial device (a prosthesis).

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you prepare for your hip or knee replacement.

## Questions

Is joint replacement the best treatment for me right now? What other
treatments should I think about?

    * How well does this surgery work for someone my age and with any of the medical problems I may have?
    * Will I be able to walk without pain? How far?
    * Will I be able to do other activities, such as golf, swimming, tennis, or hiking? When can I do them? 

Is there anything that I can do before the surgery so it will be more
successful for me?

    * Are there exercises I should do to make my muscles stronger?
    * Can I learn to use crutches or a walker before I have the surgery?
    * Do I need to lose weight before surgery?
    * Where can I get help quitting cigarettes or not drinking alcohol, if I need to? 

How can I get my home ready before I even go to the hospital?

    * How much help will I need when I come home? Will I be able to get out of bed?
    * How can I make my home safer for me?
    * How can I make my home so it is easier to get around and do things?
    * How can I make it easier for myself in the bathroom and shower?
    * What type of supplies will I need when I get home?
    * Do I need to rearrange my home?
    * What should I do if there are steps that go to my bedroom or bathroom?
    * Do I need a hospital bed?
    * Do I need to go to a rehabilitation facility? 

What are the risks or complications of the surgery?

    * What can I do before surgery to make the risks lower?
    * For which of my medical problems (diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure) do I need to see my regular provider? 

Will I need a blood transfusion during or after the surgery? Isn't there a way
of saving my own blood before the surgery so it can be used during the
surgery?

What will the surgery and my stay in the hospital be like?

    * How long will the surgery last?
    * What type of anesthesia will be used? Are there choices to consider?
    * Will I be in a lot of pain after surgery? What will be done to relieve the pain?
    * How soon will I be getting up and moving around?
    * How do I get to the bathroom after surgery? Would I have a catheter in my bladder?
    * Will I have physical therapy in the hospital?
    * What other types of treatment or therapy will I have at the hospital?
    * How long do I need to be in the hospital? 

Will I be able to walk when I leave the hospital?

    * Will I be able to go home after being in the hospital?
    * Where will I go if I need to recover more before going home? 

Do I need to stop taking any medicines before my surgery?

    * Aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or other arthritis drugs?
    * Vitamins, minerals, herbs, and supplements?
    * Blood thinners such as warfarin, clopidogrel, or others?
    * Other prescription drugs that my other doctors may have given me? 

What should I do the night before my surgery?

    * When do I need to stop eating or drinking?
    * What medicines should I take the day of surgery?
    * When do I need to be at the hospital?
    * What should I bring with me to the hospital?
    * Do I need to shower with any particular soap? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor before hip or knee replacement; Hip replacement -
before - what to ask your doctor; Knee replacement - before - what to ask your
doctor; Hip arthroplasty - before - what to ask your doctor; Knee arthroplasty
- before - what to ask your doctor

## References

Harkness JW, Crockarell JR. Arthroplasty of the hip. In: Azar FM, Canale ST,
Beaty JH, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Mihalko WM. Arthroplasty of the knee. In: Azar FM, Canale ST, Beaty JH, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 7.

## Read More

    * Hip joint replacement
    * Hip pain
    * Knee joint replacement
    * Knee pain
    * Osteoarthritis

## Patient Instructions

    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip replacement - discharge 
    * Knee joint replacement - discharge 
    * Taking care of your new hip joint

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hip Replacement
    * Knee Replacement

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

