Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007256.htm    
                                Description: A partial knee replacement is surgery to replace only one part of a damaged knee. It can replace either the inside (medial) part, the outside (lateral) part, or the kneecap part of the knee.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Partial knee replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007256.htm

# Partial knee replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A partial knee replacement is surgery to replace only one part of a damaged
knee. It can replace either the inside (medial) part, the outside (lateral)
part, or the kneecap part of the knee.

Surgery to replace the whole knee joint is called total knee replacement.

## Description

Partial knee replacement surgery removes damaged tissue and bone in the knee
joint. It is done when arthritis is present in only part of the knee. The
areas are replaced with an artificial implant, called a prosthetic. The rest
of your knee is preserved. Partial knee replacements are most often done with
smaller incisions, so there is less recovery time.

Before surgery, you will be given medicine that blocks pain (anesthesia). You
will have one of two anesthesia types:

    * General anesthesia. You will be asleep and pain-free during the procedure.
    * Regional (spinal or epidural) anesthesia. You will be numb below your waist. You will also get medicines to make you relax or feel sleepy. 

The surgeon will make a cut over your knee. This cut is about 3 to 5 inches
(7.5 to 13 centimeters) long.

    * Next, the surgeon looks at the entire knee joint. If there is damage to more than one part of your knee, you may need a total knee replacement. Most of the time this is not needed, because tests done before the procedure would have shown this damage.
    * The damaged bone and tissue are removed.
    * A part made from plastic and metal is placed into the knee.
    * Once the part is in the proper place, it is attached with bone cement.
    * The wound is closed with stitches. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The most common reason to have a knee joint replaced is to ease severe
arthritis pain.

Your health care provider may suggest knee joint replacement if:

    * You can't sleep through the night because of knee pain.
    * Your knee pain prevents you from doing daily activities.
    * Your knee pain has not gotten better with other treatments. 

You will need to understand what surgery and recovery will be like.

Partial knee arthroplasty may be a good choice if you have arthritis in only
one side or part of the knee and:

    * You are older, thin, and not very active.
    * You do not have very bad arthritis on the other side of the knee or under the kneecap.
    * You have only minor deformity in the knee.
    * You have good range of motion in your knee.
    * The ligaments in your knee are stable. 

However, most people with knee arthritis have a surgery called a total knee
arthroplasty (TKA).

Knee replacement is most often done in people age 60 and older. Not all people
can have a partial knee replacement. You may not be a good candidate if your
condition is too severe. Also, your medical and physical condition may not
allow you to have the procedure.

## Risks

Risks for this surgery include:

    * Blood clots
    * Fluid buildup in the knee joint
    * Failure of the replacement parts to attach to the knee
    * Nerve and blood vessel damage
    * Pain with kneeling
    * Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (rare)

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider which drugs you are taking, including herbs,
supplements, and medicines bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * Prepare your home.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you can still take on the day of your surgery.
    * You may be asked to stop taking medicine that makes it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin), and other drugs.
    * You may need to stop taking any medicines that weaken your immune system, including Enbrel and methotrexate.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will ask you to see the provider who treats you for these conditions.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol (more than one or two drinks a day).
    * If you smoke, you need to stop. Ask your providers for help. Smoking slows healing and recovery.
    * Let your provider know if you get a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness before your surgery.
    * You may want to visit a physical therapist before surgery to learn exercises that can help you recover.
    * Practice using a cane, walker, crutches, or a wheelchair. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You may be told not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a sip of water.
    * Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You may be able to go home the same day or need to stay in the hospital for a
day.

You can put your full weight on your knee right away.

After you return home, you should try to do what your surgeon tells you. This
includes going to the bathroom or taking walks in the hallways with help. You
will also need physical therapy to improve range of motion and strengthen the
muscles around the knee.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover quickly and have much less pain than they did before
surgery. People who have a partial knee replacement recover faster than those
who have a total knee replacement.

Many people are able to walk without a cane or walker within 3 to 4 weeks
after surgery. You will need physical therapy for 3 to 4 months.

Most forms of exercise are OK after surgery, including walking, swimming,
tennis, golf, and biking. However, you should avoid high-impact activities
such as jogging.

Partial knee replacement can have good results for some people. However, the
unreplaced part of the knee can still degenerate and you may need a full knee
replacement down the road. Partial inside or outside replacement has good
outcomes for up to 10 years after surgery. Partial patella or patellofemoral
replacement does not have as good long-term results as the partial inside or
outside replacements. You should discuss with your provider whether you are a
candidate for partial knee replacement and what the success rate is for your
condition.

## Alternative Names

Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty; Knee replacement - partial; Unicondylar
knee replacement; Arthroplasty - unicompartmental knee; UKA; Minimally
invasive partial knee replacement

## Images

    * ![Knee joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19309t.jpg)Knee joint
    * ![The structure of a joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19399t.jpg)The structure of a joint
    * ![Partial knee replacement - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21768t.jpg)Partial knee replacement - series

## References

Althaus A, Long WJ, Vigdorchik JM. Robotic unicompartmental knee arthroplasty.
In: Scott WN, ed. _Insall & Scott Surgery of the Knee_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 163.

Jevsevar DS. Treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee: evidence-based
guideline, 2nd edition. _J Am Acad Orthop Surg_. 2013;21(9):571-576. PMID:
23996988 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23996988.

Mihalko WM. Arthroplasty of the knee. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 7.

Weber KL, Jevsevar DS, McGrory BJ. AAOS Clinical Practice Guideline: surgical
management of osteoarthritis of the knee: evidence-based guideline. _J Am Acad
Orthop Surg_. 2016;24(8):e94-e96. PMID: 27355287
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27355287.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee
Replacement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeReplacement_thumb.jpg)Knee
Replacement _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

