Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003603.htm    
                                Description: This test measures the amount of calcium in urine. All cells need calcium in order to work. Calcium helps build strong bones and teeth. It is important for heart function, and helps with muscle contraction,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcium - urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003603.htm

# Calcium - urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test measures the amount of calcium in urine. All cells need calcium in
order to work. Calcium helps build strong bones and teeth. It is important for
heart function, and helps with muscle contraction, nerve signaling, and blood
clotting.

See also: Calcium - blood

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is most often needed:

    * On day 1, urinate into the toilet when you wake up in the morning.
    * Collect all urine (in a special container) for the next 24 hours.
    * On day 2, urinate into the container in the morning when you wake up.
    * Cap the container. Keep it in the refrigerator or a cool place during the collection period. Label the container with your name, the date, and the time you finish it, and return it as instructed. 

For an infant, thoroughly wash the area where urine exits the body.

    * Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).
    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the labia.
    * Diaper as usual over the secured bag. 

This procedure may take a few tries. An active baby can move the bag, causing
urine to go into the diaper. You may need extra collection bags.

Check the infant often and change the bag after the infant has urinated into
it. Drain the urine from the bag into the container provided by your health
care provider.

Deliver the sample to the laboratory or to your provider as soon as possible.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with urine test results.

    * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without first talking to your provider. 

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Urine calcium level can help your provider:

    * Decide on the best treatment for the most common type of kidney stone, which is made of calcium. This type of stone may occur when there is too much calcium in the urine.
    * Monitor someone who has a problem with the parathyroid gland, which helps control calcium level in the blood and urine.
    * Diagnose the cause of problems with your blood calcium level or bones.

## Normal Results

If you are eating a normal diet, the expected amount of calcium in the urine
is 100 to 300 milligrams per day (mg/day) or 2.50 to 7.50 millimoles per 24
hours (mmol/24 hours). If you are eating a diet low in calcium, the amount of
calcium in the urine will be 50 to 150 mg/day or 1.25 to 3.75 mmol/24 hours.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high level of urine calcium (above 300 mg/day) may be due to:

    * Chronic kidney disease
    * High vitamin D level
    * Leaking of calcium from the kidneys into the urine, which may cause calcium kidney stones
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Taking too much calcium
    * Too much production of parathyroid hormone (PTH) by the parathyroid glands in the neck (hyperparathyroidism)
    * Use of loop diuretics (most commonly furosemide, torsemide, or bumetanide)

A low level of urine calcium may be due to:

    * Disorders in which the body does not absorb nutrients from food well
    * Disorders in which the kidney handles calcium abnormally
    * Parathyroid glands in the neck do not produce enough PTH (hypoparathyroidism)
    * Use of a thiazide diuretic
    * Very low level of vitamin D

## Alternative Names

Urinary Ca+2; Kidney stones - calcium in urine; Renal calculi - calcium in
your urine; Parathyroid - calcium in urine

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Calcium urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9151t.jpg)Calcium urine test

## References

Bringhurst FR, Demay MB, Kronenberg HM. Hormones and disorders of mineral
metabolism. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds.
_Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Klemm KM, Klein MJ. Biochemical markers of bone metabolism. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 15.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Calcium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Calcium2_thumb.jpg)Calcium _Read
more_

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

