Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007305.htm    
                                Description: Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a test used to check how well the kidneys are working. Specifically, it estimates how much blood passes through the glomeruli each minute. Glomeruli are the tiny filters    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glomerular filtration rate

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007305.htm

# Glomerular filtration rate

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a test used to check how well the kidneys
are working. Specifically, it estimates how much blood passes through the
glomeruli each minute. Glomeruli are the tiny filters in the kidneys that
filter waste from the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

The blood sample is sent to a lab. There, the creatinine level in the blood
sample is tested. Creatinine is a chemical waste product of creatine. Creatine
is a chemical the body makes to supply energy, mainly to muscles.

The lab specialist combines your blood creatinine level with several other
factors to estimate your GFR. Different formulas are used for adults and
children. The formula includes some or all of the following:

    * Age
    * Blood creatinine measurement
    * Ethnicity
    * Gender
    * Height
    * Weight 

The creatinine clearance test, which involves a 24-hour urine collection, can
also provide an estimate of kidney function.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may ask you to temporarily stop any medicines that
may affect the test results. These include antibiotics and stomach acid
medicines.

Be sure to tell your provider about all the medicines you take. Do not stop
taking any medicine before talking to your doctor.

Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or think you might be. GFR is affected by
pregnancy.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there might be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The GFR test measures how well your kidneys are filtering the blood. Your
doctor may order this test if there are signs that your kidneys are not
working well. It may also be done to see how far kidney disease has
progressed.

The GFR test is recommended for people with chronic kidney disease. It is also
recommended for persons who may develop kidney disease due to:

    * Diabetes
    * Family history of kidney disease
    * Frequent urinary tract infections 
    * Heart disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Urinary blockage

## Normal Results

According to the National Kidney Foundation, normal results range from 90Â to
120 mL/min/1.73 m2. Older people will have lower than normal GFR levels,
because GFR decreases with age.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Levels below 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 for 3 or more months are a sign of chronic
kidney disease. A GFR lower than 15 mL/min/1.73 m2 is a sign of kidney failure
and requires immediate medical attention.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but can include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

GFR; Estimated GFR; eGFR

## Images

    * ![Creatinine tests](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9229t.jpg)Creatinine tests

## References

Krishnan A, Levin A. Laboratory assessment of kidney disease: glomerular
filtration rate, urinalysis, and proteinuria. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx
VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 23.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

