Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003622.htm    
                                Description: 24-hour urine protein measures the amount of protein released in urine over a 24-hour period.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

24-hour urine protein

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003622.htm

# 24-hour urine protein

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

24-hour urine protein measures the amount of protein released in urine over a
24-hour period.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is needed:

    * On day 1, urinate into the toilet when you get up in the morning.
    * Afterward, collect all urine in a special container for the next 24 hours.
    * On day 2, urinate into the container when you get up in the morning.
    * Cap the container. Keep it in the refrigerator or a cool place during the collection period.
    * Label the container with your name, the date, the time of completion, and return it as instructed.

For an infant, thoroughly wash the area around the urethra. Open a urine
collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end), and place it
on the infant. For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the
adhesive to the skin. For females, place the bag over the labia. Diaper as
usual over the secured bag.

This procedure may take a couple of attempts. Active infants can move the bag,
causing the urine to be absorbed by the diaper. The infant should be checked
frequently and the bag changed after the infant has urinated into the bag.
Drain the urine from the bag into the container provided by your health care
provider.

Deliver it to the lab or your provider as soon as possible upon completion.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will tell you, if needed, to stop taking any medicines that may
interfere with the test results.

A number of medicines can change the test results. Make sure your provider
knows about all medicines, herbs, vitamins, and supplements you are taking.

The following may also affect test results:

    * A lack of fluid (dehydration)
    * Any type of x-ray exam with dye (contrast material) within 3 days before the urine test
    * Fluid from the vagina that gets into the urine
    * Severe emotional stress
    * Strenuous exercise
    * Urinary tract infection 

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if blood, urine, or imaging tests find signs
of damage to kidney function.

To avoid a 24-hour urine collection, your provider may be able to order a test
that is done on just one urine sample (protein-to-creatinine ratio).

## Normal Results

The normal value is less than 100 milligrams per day or less than 10
milligrams per deciliter of urine.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * A group of diseases in which a protein called amyloid builds up in the organs and tissues (amyloidosis)
    * Bladder tumor
    * Heart failure
    * High blood pressure during pregnancy (preeclampsia)
    * Kidney disease caused by diabetes, high blood pressure, autoimmune disorders, a blockage in the kidney system, certain medicines, toxins, a blockage of blood vessels, or other causes
    * Multiple myeloma

Healthy people may have higher than normal urine protein level after strenuous
exercise or when they are dehydrated. Some foods may affect urine protein
levels.

## Risks

The test involves normal urination. There are no risks.

## Alternative Names

Urine protein - 24 hour; Chronic kidney disease - urine protein; Kidney
failure - urine protein

## References

Chau K, Hutton H, Levin A. Laboratory assessment of kidney disease: glomerular
filtration rate, urinalysis, and proteinuria. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM,
Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 114.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![Multiple
Myeloma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleMyeloma_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Myeloma _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

