Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003605.htm    
                                Description: Urine urea nitrogen is a test that measures the amount of urea in the urine. Urea is a waste product resulting from the breakdown of protein in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urea nitrogen urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003605.htm

# Urea nitrogen urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine urea nitrogen is a test that measures the amount of urea in the urine.
Urea is a waste product resulting from the breakdown of protein in the body.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is often needed. You will need to collect your urine
over 24 hours. Your health care provider will tell you how to do this. Follow
instructions exactly to ensure accurate results.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is mainly used to check a person's protein balance and the amount of
food protein needed by severely ill people. It is also used to determine how
much protein a person takes in.

Urea is excreted by the kidneys. The test measures the amount of urea the
kidneys excrete. The result can show how well the kidneys are working.

## Normal Results

Normal values range from 12 to 20 grams per 24 hours (428.4 to 714 mmol/day).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Low levels usually indicate:

    * Kidney problems
    * Malnutrition (inadequate protein in diet) 

High levels usually indicate:

    * Increased protein breakdown in the body
    * Too much protein intake

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine urea nitrogen

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Agarwal R. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs
RC, Wing EJ, Fitz JG, eds. _Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of
Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

