Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003483.htm    
                                Description: The total protein test measures the total amount of two classes of proteins found in the fluid portion of your blood. These are albumin and globulin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Total protein

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003483.htm

# Total protein

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The total protein test measures the total amount of two classes of proteins
found in the fluid portion of your blood. These are albumin and globulin.

Proteins are important parts of all cells and tissues.

    * Albumin helps prevent fluid from leaking out of blood vessels.
    * Globulins are an important part of your immune system. 

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is often done to diagnose nutritional problems, kidney disease or
liver disease.

If total protein is abnormal, you will need to have more tests to look for the
exact cause of the problem.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 6.0 to 8.3Â grams per deciliter (g/dL) or 60 to 83 g/L.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal levels may be due to:

    * Chronic inflammation or infection, including HIV and hepatitis B or C
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Waldenstrom disease

Lower-than-normal levels may be due to:

    * Agammaglobulinemia
    * Bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Burns (extensive)
    * Glomerulonephritis
    * Liver disease
    * Malabsorption
    * Malnutrition
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Protein-losing enteropathy 

## Considerations

Total protein measurement may be increased during pregnancy.

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 114.

Manary MJ, Trehan I. Protein-energy malnutrition. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 215.

Pincus MR, Abraham NZ. Interpreting laboratory results. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

