Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003781.htm    
                                Description: Renal arteriography is a special x-ray of the blood vessels of the kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal arteriography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003781.htm

# Renal arteriography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Renal arteriography is a special x-ray of the blood vessels of the kidneys.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done in the hospital or outpatient office. You will lie on an
x-ray table.

Health care providers often use an artery near the groin for the test.
Occasionally, the provider may use an artery in the wrist.

Your provider will:

    * Clean and shave the area.
    * Apply a numbing medicine to the area.
    * Place a needle into the artery.
    * Pass a thin wire through the needle into the artery.
    * Take out the needle.
    * Insert a long, narrow, flexible tube called a catheter in its place. 

The doctor directs the catheter into correct position using x-ray images of
the body. An instrument called fluoroscope sends the images to a TV monitor,
which the provider can see.

The catheter is pushed ahead over the wire into the aorta (main blood vessel
from the heart). It then enters the kidney artery. The test uses a special dye
(called contrast) to help the arteries show on the x-ray. The blood vessels of
the kidneys are not seen with ordinary x-rays. The dye flows through the
catheter into the kidney artery.

X-ray images are taken as the dye moves through the blood vessels. Saline
(sterile salt water) containing a blood thinner may also be sent through the
catheter to keep blood in the area from clotting.

The catheter is removed after the x-rays are taken. A closure device is placed
in the groin or pressure is applied to the area to stop the bleeding. The area
is checked after 10 or 15 minutes and a bandage is applied. You may be asked
to keep your leg straight for 4 to 6 hours after the procedure.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the provider if:

    * You are pregnant
    * You have ever had any bleeding problems
    * You currently take blood thinners, including daily aspirin
    * You ever had any allergic reactions, especially those related to x-ray contrast material or iodine substances
    * You have ever been diagnosed with kidney failure or poorly functioning kidneys 

You must sign a consent form. DO NOT eat or drink anything for 6 to 8 hours
before the test. You will be given a hospital gown to wear and asked to remove
all jewelry. You may be given a pain pill (sedative) before the procedure or
IV sedatives during the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

You will lie flat on the x-ray table. There is usually a cushion, but it is
not as comfortable as a bed. You may feel a sting when the anesthesia medicine
is given. You may feel some pressure and discomfort as the catheter is
positioned.

Some people feel a warm sensation when the dye is injected, but most people
cannot feel it. You don't feel the catheter inside your body.

There may be slight tenderness and bruising at the site of the injection after
the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Renal arteriography is often needed to help decide on the best treatment after
other tests are done first. These include duplex ultrasound, CT abdomen, CT
angiogram, MRI abdomen, or MRI angiogram. These tests may show the following
problems.

    * Abnormal widening of an artery, called an aneurysm
    * Abnormal connections between veins and arteries (fistulas)
    * Blood clot blocking an artery supplying the kidney
    * Unexplained high blood pressure thought to be due to narrowing of the blood vessels of the kidneys
    * Benign tumors and cancers involving the kidneys
    * Active bleeding from the kidney 

This test may be used to examine donors and recipients before a kidney
transplant.

## Normal Results

Results may vary. Talk to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test
results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Renal angiography may show the presence of tumors, narrowing of the artery or
aneurysms (widening of the vein or artery), blood clots, fistulas, or bleeding
in the kidney.

The test may also be done with the following conditions:

    * Blockage of an artery by a blood clot
    * Renal artery stenosis
    * Renal cell cancer
    * Angiomyolipomas (noncancerous tumors of the kidney) 

Some of these problems can be treated with techniques done at the same time
the arteriogram is performed.

    * Angioplasty is a procedure to open a narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to your kidneys.
    * A stent is a small, metal mesh tube that keeps the artery open. It may be placed to keep a narrowed artery open.
    * Cancers and noncancerous tumors can be treated using a process called embolization. This involves using substances that block blood flow in order to kill or shrink the tumor. Sometimes, this is performed in combination with surgery.
    * Bleeding can also be treated with embolization.  

## Risks

The procedure is generally safe. There may be some risks, such as:

    * Allergic reaction to the dye (contrast medium)
    * Arterial damage
    * Damage to the artery or artery wall, which can lead to blood clots
    * Kidney damage from damage to the artery or from the dye 

There is low radiation exposure. Pregnant women and children are more
sensitive to the risks related to x-rays.

## Considerations

The test should NOT be done if you are pregnant or have severe bleeding
problems.

Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or CT angiography (CTA) can be done
instead. MRA and CTA are noninvasive and can provide similar imaging of the
kidney arteries, althoughÂ they cannot be used for treatment.

## Alternative Names

Renal angiogram; Angiography - kidney; Renal angiography; Renal artery
stenosis - arteriography

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Renal arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9818t.jpg)Renal arteries

## References

Azarbal AF, Mclafferty RB. Arteriography. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 25.

Duddalwar VA, Jadvar H, Palmer SL. Diagnostic kidney imaging. In: Yu ASL,
Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 25.

Textor SC. Renovascular hypertension and ischemic nephropathy. In: Yu ASL,
Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 47.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

