Link: https://medlineplus.gov/leadpoisoning.html    
                                Description: Breathing air, drinking water or eating food that contains lead can cause health problems. Find a list of scenarios that can lead to lead poisoning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Lead Poisoning

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/leadpoisoning.html

#  Lead Poisoning

Also called: Plumbism

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Lead is a metal that occurs naturally in the earth's crust. Lead can be found
in all parts of our environment. Much of it comes from human activities such
as mining and manufacturing. Lead used to be in paint; older houses may still
have lead paint. You could be exposed to lead by

    * Eating food or drinking water that contains lead. Water pipes in older homes may contain lead.
    * Working in a job where lead is used
    * Using lead in a hobby, such as making stained glass or lead-glazed pottery
    * Using folk remedies such as herbs or foods that contain lead

Breathing air, drinking water, eating food, or swallowing or touching dirt
that contains lead can cause many health problems. Lead can affect almost
every organ and system in your body. In adults, lead can increase blood
pressure and cause infertility, nerve disorders, and muscle and joint pain. It
can also make you irritable and affect your ability to concentrate and
remember.

Lead is especially dangerous for children. A child who swallows large amounts
of lead may develop anemia, severe stomachache, muscle weakness, and brain
damage. Even at low levels, lead can affect a child's mental and physical
growth.

Agency for Toxic Substances Disease Registry

## Start Here

    * Lead (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Lead (Environmental Protection Agency)
    * Lead (Environmental Health Student Portal) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Learn about Lead (Environmental Protection Agency)
    * Tox Town ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Blood Test: Lead (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Heavy Metal Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Lead Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Lead Poisoning Prevention Tips (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Protect Your Family from Lead in Your Home (Environmental Protection Agency) \- PDF
    * The Lead-Safe Certified Guide to Renovate Right (Environmental Protection Agency) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Candy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Folk Medicine (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Lead and Drinking Water from Private Wells (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Safety and Health Topics: Lead (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)
    * Water (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Basic Information about Lead in Drinking Water (Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Water)
    * Kohl, Kajal, Al-Kahl, or Surma: By Any Name, Beware of Lead Poisoning (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Lead (Pb) Air Pollution (Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Enviromysteries: Inside Stories: Maggie's Story ![Interactive Tutorial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/tutorial1.gif) (Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Maryland Public Television)

## Statistics and Research

    * TOXMAP ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) \- Create maps showing locations of toxic chemical releases

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lead Poisoning ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Lead Poisoning and Intelligence: A Search for Cause and Effect in...
    * Article: Trends in Elevated Blood Lead Levels Using 5 and 10 Âµg/dL...
    * Article: Analysis of disease profile, and medical burden by lead exposure from...
    * Lead Poisoning -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Environmental Protection Agency Also in Spanish
    * National Center for Environmental Health (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Lead Poisoning ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)
    * Lead Poisoning (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Lead and Your Baby (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Lead - nutritional considerations (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lead levels - blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lead poisoning (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lead Toxicity (Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Lead Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeadPoisoning.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Delta-ALA urine test
    * Lead - nutritional considerations
    * Lead levels - blood
    * Lead poisoning

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Lead Poisoning is the National
Institute of Environmental Health Sciences

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Lead Poisoning_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

