Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003462.htm    
                                Description: The basic metabolic panel is a group of blood tests that provides information about your body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Basic metabolic panel

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003462.htm

# Basic metabolic panel

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The basic metabolic panel is a group of blood tests that provides information
about your body's metabolism.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may ask you to not eat or drink for 8 hours before
the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to evaluate:

    * Kidney function
    * Blood acid/base balance
    * Blood sugar levels
    * Blood calcium level

## Normal Results

The basic metabolic panel typically measures these blood chemicals. The
following are normal ranges for the substances tested:

    * BUN: 6 to 20 mg/dL (2.14 to 7.14 mmol/L)
    * CO2 (carbon dioxide): 23 to 29 mmol/L
    * Creatinine: 0.8 to 1.2 mg/dL (70.72 to 106.08 micromol/L)
    * Glucose: 64 to 100 mg/dL (3.55 to 5.55 mmol/L)
    * Serum chloride: 96 to 106 mmol/L
    * Serum potassium: 3.7 to 5.2 mEq/L (3.7 to 5.2 mmol/L)
    * Serum sodium: 136 to 144 mEq/L (136 to 144 mmol/L)
    * Serum calcium: 8.5 to 10.2 mg/dL (2.13 to 2.55 millimol/L)  

Key to abbreviations:

    * L = liter
    * dL = deciliter = 0.1 liter
    * mg = milligram
    * mmol = millimole
    * mEq = milliequivalents 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results can be due to a variety of different medical conditions,
including kidney failure, breathing problems, diabetes or diabetes-related
complications, and medicine side effects. Talk to your provider about the
meaning of your results from each test.

## Alternative Names

SMAC7; Sequential multi-channel analysis with computer-7; SMA7; Metabolic
panel 7; CHEM-7

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9879t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Cohn SI. Preoperative evaluation. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 431.

Oh MS, Briefel G. Evaluation of renal function, water, electrolytes, and acid-
base balance. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis
and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

