Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003486.htm    
                                Description: Ionized calcium is calcium in your blood that is not attached to proteins. It is also called free calcium.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcium - ionized

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003486.htm

# Calcium - ionized

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ionized calcium is calcium in your blood that is not attached to proteins. It
is also called free calcium.

All cells need calcium in order to work. Calcium helps build strong bones and
teeth. It is important for heart function. It also helps with muscle
contraction, nerve signaling, and blood clotting.

This article discusses the test used to measure the amount of ionized calcium
in blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink for at least 6 hours before the test.

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of bone, kidney, liver or
parathyroid disease. The test may also be done to monitor progress and
treatment of these diseases.

Most of the time, blood tests measure your total calcium level. This looks at
both ionized calcium and calcium attached to proteins. You may need to have a
separate ionized calcium test if you have factors that increase or decrease
total calcium levels. These may include abnormal blood levels of albumin or
immunoglobulins.

## Normal Results

Results generally fall in these ranges:

    * Children: 4.8 to 5.3 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or 1.20 to 1.32 millimoles per liter (millimol/L)
    * Adults: 4.8 to 5.6 mg/dL or 1.20 to 1.40 millimol/L

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal levels of ionized calcium may be due to:

    * Decreased levels of calcium in the urine from an unknown cause
    * Hyperparathyroidism
    * Hyperthyroidism
    * Milk-alkali syndrome
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Paget disease
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Thiazide diuretics
    * Thrombocytosis (high platelet count)
    * Tumors
    * Vitamin A excess
    * Vitamin D excess 

Lower-than-normal levels may be due to:

    * Hypoparathyroidism
    * Malabsorption
    * Osteomalacia
    * Pancreatitis
    * Renal failure
    * Rickets
    * Vitamin D deficiency 

## Alternative Names

Free calcium; Ionized calcium

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Bringhurst FR, Demay MB, Kronenberg HM. Hormones and disorders of mineral
metabolism. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds.
_Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Klemm KM, Klein MJ. Biochemical markers of bone metabolism. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 15.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia, and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Calcium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Calcium2_thumb.jpg)Calcium _Read
more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

