Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003469.htm    
                                Description: CO2 is carbon dioxide. This article discusses the laboratory test to measure the amount of carbon dioxide in the liquid part of your blood, called the serum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CO2 blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003469.htm

# CO2 blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CO2 is carbon dioxide. This article discusses the laboratory test to measure
the amount of carbon dioxide in the liquid part of your blood, called the
serum.

In the body, most of the CO2 is in the form of a substance called bicarbonate
(HCO3-). Therefore, the CO2 blood test is really a measure of your blood
bicarbonate level.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

The CO2 test is most often done as part of an electrolyte or basic metabolic
panel. Changes in your CO2 level may suggest that you are losing or retaining
fluid. This may cause an imbalance in your body's electrolytes.

CO2 levels in the blood are affected by kidney and lung function. The kidneys
help maintain the normal bicarbonate levels.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 23 to 29 milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L) or 23 to 29
millimoles per liter (mmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement range of results for these
tests. Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different
specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal levels may be due to the following problems.

Lower-than-normal levels:

    * Addison disease
    * Diarrhea
    * Ethylene glycol poisoning
    * Ketoacidosis
    * Kidney disease
    * Lactic acidosis
    * Metabolic acidosis
    * Methanol poisoning
    * Renal tubular acidosis; distal
    * Renal tubular acidosis; proximal
    * Respiratory alkalosis (compensated)
    * Salicylate toxicity (such as aspirin overdose)
    * Ureteral diversion 

Higher-than-normal levels:

    * Bartter syndrome
    * Cushing syndrome
    * Hyperaldosteronism
    * Metabolic alkalosis
    * Respiratory acidosis (compensated)
    * Vomiting 

Delirium may also alter bicarbonate levels.

## Alternative Names

Bicarbonate test; HCO3-; Carbon dioxide test; TCO2; Total CO2; CO2 test -
serum; Acidosis - CO2; Alkalosis - CO2

## References

Ring T, Acid-base physiology and diagnosis of disorders. In: Ronco C, Bellomo
R, Kellum JA, Ricci Z, eds. _Critical Care Nephrology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 65.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

