Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003618.htm    
                                Description: Citric acid urine test measures the level of citric acid in urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Citric acid urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003618.htm

# Citric acid urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Citric acid urine test measures the level of citric acid in urine.

## How the Test is Performed

You will need to collect your urine at home over 24 hours. Your health care
provider will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly so that the
results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test. But the results are
affected by your diet, and this test is usually done while you are on a normal
diet. Ask your provider for more information.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is used to diagnose renal tubular acidosis and evaluate kidney stone
disease.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 320 to 1,240 mg per 24 hours.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A low level of citric acid may mean renal tubular acidosis and a tendency to
form calcium kidney stones.

The following may decrease urine citric acid levels:

    * Long-term (chronic) kidney failure
    * Diabetes
    * Excessive muscle activity
    * Medicines called angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors
    * Parathyroid glands do not produce enough of its hormone (hypoparathyroidism)
    * Too much acid in the body fluids (acidosis)

The following may increase urine citric acid levels:

    * A high carbohydrate diet
    * Estrogen therapy
    * Vitamin D

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine - citric acid test; Renal tubular acidosis - citric acid test; Kidney
stones - citric acid test; Urolithiasis - citric acid test

## Images

    * ![Citric acid urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9194t.jpg)Citric acid urine test

## References

Pearle MS, Antonelli JA, Lotan Y. Urinary lithiasis: etiology, epidemiology,
and pathogenesis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 51.

Sreedharan R, Avner ED. Renal tubular acidosis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 529.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

