Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003425.htm    
                                Description: The urine 24-hour volume test measures the amount of urine produced in a day. The amount of creatinine, protein, and other chemicals released into the urine during this period is often tested.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine 24-hour volume

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003425.htm

# Urine 24-hour volume

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The urine 24-hour volume test measures the amount of urine produced in a day.
The amount of creatinine, protein, and other chemicals released into the urine
during this period is often tested.

## How the Test is Performed

For this test, you must urinate into a special bag or container every time you
use the bathroom for a 24-hour period.

    * On day 1, urinate into the toilet when you get up in the morning.
    * Afterward, collect all urine in a special container for the next 24 hours.
    * On day 2, urinate into the container when you get up in the morning.
    * Cap the container. Keep it in the refrigerator or a cool place during the collection period.
    * Label the container with your name, the date, the time of completion, and return it as instructed.

For an infant:

Thoroughly wash the area around the urethra (the hole where urine flows out).
Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).

    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the two folds of skin on either side of the vagina (labia). Put a diaper on the baby (over the bag).

Check the infant often, and change the bag after the infant has urinated.
Empty the urine from the bag into the container provided by your health care
provider.

An active infant can cause the bag to move. It may take more thanÂ one try to
collect the sample.

When finished, label the container and return it as instructed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain drugs can also affect the test results. Your provider may tell you to
stop taking certain medicines before the test. Never stop taking medicine
without first talking to your provider.

The following may also affect test results:

    * Dehydration
    * Dye (contrast media) if you have a radiology scan within 3 days before the urine test
    * Emotional stress
    * Fluid from the vagina that gets into the urine
    * Strenuous exercise
    * Urinary tract infection 

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test if there are signs of damage to your kidney function on
blood, urine, or imaging tests.

Urine volume is normally measured as part of a test that measures the amount
of a substances passed in your urine in a day, such as:

    * Creatinine
    * Sodium
    * Potassium
    * Urea nitrogen
    * Protein

This test may also be done if you have polyuria (abnormally large volumes of
urine), such as is seen in people with diabetes insipidus.

## Normal Results

The normal range for 24-hour urine volume is 800 to 2,000 milliliters per day
(with a normal fluid intake of about 2 liters per day).

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Disorders that cause reduced urine volume include dehydration, not enough
fluid intake, or some types of chronic kidney disease.

Some of the conditions that cause increased urine volume include:

    * Diabetes insipidus - renal
    * Diabetes insipidus - central
    * Diabetes
    * High fluid intake
    * Some forms of kidney disease
    * Use of diuretic medicines 

## Alternative Names

Urine volume; 24-hour urine collection; Urine protein - 24 hour

## Images

    * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

Verbalis JG. Disorders of water balance. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA,
Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 15.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Insipidus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesInsipidus_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Insipidus _Read more_

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

