Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003476.htm    
                                Description: Uric acid is a chemical created when the body breaks down substances called purines. Purines are normally produced in the body and are also found in some foods and drinks. Foods with high content of purines    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uric acid - blood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003476.htm

# Uric acid - blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uric acid is a chemical created when the body breaks down substances called
purines. Purines are normally produced in the body and are also found in some
foods and drinks. Foods with high content of purines include liver, anchovies,
mackerel, dried beans and peas, and beer.

Most uric acid dissolves in blood and travels to the kidneys. From there, it
passes out in urine. If your body produces too much uric acid or does not
remove enough of it, you can get sick. A high level of uric acid in the blood
is called hyperuricemia.

This test checks to see how much uric acid you have in your blood. Another
test can be used to check the level of uric acid in your urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink anything for 4 hours before the test unless told
otherwise.

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to see if you have a high level of uric acid in your blood.
High levels of uric acid can sometimes cause gout or kidney disease.

You may have this test if you have had or are about to have certain types of
chemotherapy. Rapid destruction of cancerous cells or weight loss, which may
occur with such treatments, can increase the amount of uric acid in your
blood.

## Normal Results

Normal values range between 3.5Â to 7.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement range for results for these
tests. Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different
specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Greater-than-normal levels of uric acid (hyperuricemia) may be due to:

    * Acidosis
    * Alcoholism
    * Chemotherapy-related side effects
    * Dehydration, often due to diuretic medicines
    * Diabetes
    * Excessive exercise
    * Hypoparathyroidism
    * Lead poisoning
    * Leukemia
    * Medullary cystic kidney disease
    * Polycythemia vera
    * Purine-rich diet
    * Renal failure
    * Toxemia of pregnancy

Lower-than-normal levels of uric acid may be due to:

    * Fanconi syndrome
    * Hereditary diseases of metabolism
    * HIV infection
    * Liver disease
    * Low purine diet
    * Medicines such as fenofibrate, losartan, and trimethoprim-sulfmethoxazole
    * Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion

Other reasons this test may be performed include:

    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Gout
    * Injury of the kidney and ureter
    * Kidney stones (nephrolithiasis)

## Alternative Names

Gout - uric acid in blood; Hyperuricemia - uric acid in blood

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Uric acid crystals](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1222t.jpg)Uric acid crystals

## References

Burns CM, Wortmann RL. Clinical features and treatment of gout. In: Firestein
GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's
Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 95.

Edwards NL. Crystal deposition diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 273.

Sharfuddin AA, Weisbord SD, Palevsky PM, Molitoris BA. Acute kidney injury.
In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gout](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gout_thumb.jpg)Gout _Read more_

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

