Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003790.htm    
                                Description: A renal scan is a nuclear medicine exam in which a small amount of radioactive material (radioisotope) is used to measure the function of the kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003790.htm

# Renal scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A renal scan is a nuclear medicine exam in which a small amount of radioactive
material (radioisotope) is used to measure the function of the kidneys.

## How the Test is Performed

The specific type of scan may vary. This article provides a general overview.

A renal scan is similar to a renal perfusion scintiscan. It may be done along
with that test.

You will be asked to lie on the scanner table. The health care provider will
place a tight band or blood pressure cuff on your upper arm. This creates
pressure and helps your arm veins become bigger. A small amount of
radioisotope is injected into a vein. The specific radioisotope used may vary,
depending on what is being studied.

The cuff or band on the upper arm is removed, and the radioactive material
moves through your blood. The kidneys are scanned a short time later. Several
images are taken, each lasting 1 or 2 seconds. The total scan time takes about
30 minutes to 1 hour.

A computer reviews the images and provides detailed information about how your
kidney works. For example, it can tell your doctor how much blood the kidney
filters over time. A diuretic drug ("water pill") may also be injected during
the test. This helps speed up the passage of radioisotope through your
kidneys.

You should be able to go home after the scan. You may be asked to drink plenty
of fluids and urinate often to help remove the radioactive material from the
body.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider if you take any nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs) or blood pressure medicines. These drugs might affect the test.

You may be asked to drink additional fluids before the scan.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people feel discomfort when the needle is placed into the vein. However,
you will not feel the radioactive material. The scanning table may be hard and
cold. You will need to lie still during the scan. You may feel an increased
urge to urinate near the end of the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

A renal scan tells your provider how your kidneys work. It also shows their
size, position, and shape. It may be done if:

    * You cannot have other x-rays using contrast (dye) material because you are sensitive or allergic to them, or you have reduced kidney function
    * You have had a kidney transplant and your doctor wants to check how well the kidney is working and look for signs of rejection
    * You have high blood pressure and your doctor wants to see how well your kidneys are working 
    * Your provider needs to confirm if a kidney that looks swollen or blocked on another x-ray is losing function

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results are a sign of reduced kidney function. This may be due to:

    * Acute or chronic kidney failure
    * Chronic kidney infection (pyelonephritis)
    * Complications of a kidney transplant
    * Glomerulonephritis
    * Hydronephrosis
    * Injury of the kidney and ureter
    * Narrowing or blockage of the arteries that carry blood to the kidney
    * Obstructive uropathy 

## Risks

There is a slight amount of radiation from the radioisotope. Most of this
radiation exposure occurs to the kidneys and bladder. Almost all radiation is
gone from the body in 24 hours. Caution is advised if you are pregnant or
breastfeeding.

Very rarely, a person will have an allergic reaction to the radioisotope,
which may include severe anaphylaxis.

## Alternative Names

Renogram; Kidney scan

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Renocystogram. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:953-993.

Duddalwar VA, Jadvar H, Palmer SL, Boswell WD. Diagnostic kidney imaging. In:
Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 28.

Shukla AR. Posterior urethral valves and urethral anomalies. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 141.

Wymer DTG, Wymer DC. Imaging. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ,
eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 5.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

