Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003474.htm    
                                Description: BUN stands for blood urea nitrogen. Urea nitrogen is what forms when protein breaks down.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

BUN - blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003474.htm

# BUN - blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

BUN stands for blood urea nitrogen. Urea nitrogen is what forms when protein
breaks down.

A test can be done to measure the amount of urea nitrogen in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

The BUN test is often done to check kidney function.

## Normal Results

The normal result is generally 6 to 20 mg/dL.

Note: Normal values may vary among different labs. Talk to your provider about
your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal level may be due to:

    * Congestive heart failure
    * Excessive protein level in the gastrointestinal tract
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding
    * Hypovolemia (dehydration)
    * Heart attack
    * Kidney disease, including glomerulonephritis, pyelonephritis, and acute tubular necrosis
    * Kidney failure
    * Shock
    * Urinary tract obstruction

Lower-than-normal level may be due to:

    * Liver failure
    * Low protein diet
    * Malnutrition
    * Over-hydration

## Considerations

For people with liver disease, the BUN level may be low, even if the kidneys
are normal.

## Alternative Names

Blood urea nitrogen; Renal insufficiency - BUN; Renal failure - BUN; Renal
disease - BUN

## References

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 114.

Oh MS, Breifel G. Evaluation of renal function, water, electrolytes, and acid-
base balance. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis
and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

Sharfuddin AA, Weisbord SD, Palevsky PM, Molitoris BA. Acute kidney injury.
In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
31.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

