Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003601.htm    
                                Description: The urine chloride test measures the amount of chloride in a certain volume of urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chloride - urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003601.htm

# Chloride - urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The urine chloride test measures the amount of chloride in a certain volume of
urine.

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested in the lab. If needed, the
health care provider may ask you to collect your urine at home over a period
of 24 hours. Your provider will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions
exactly so that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will ask you to temporarily stop taking any medicines that may
affect the test result. Tell your provider about all the medicines you take,
including:

    * Acetazolamide
    * Corticosteroids
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Water pills (diuretic medicines) 

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of a condition that
affects body fluids or acid-base balance.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 110 to 250 mEq/L per day. This range depends on the amount
of salt and fluid you take in.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal urine chloride level may be due to:

    * Low function of the adrenal glands
    * Inflammation of the kidney that results in salt loss (salt-losing nephropathy)
    * Production of an unusually large amount of urine (polyuria)
    * Too much salt in the diet 

Decreased urine chloride level may be due to:

    * Body holding in too much salt (sodium retention)
    * Cushing syndrome
    * Decreased salt intake
    * Fluid loss that occurs with diarrhea, vomiting, sweating, and gastric suction

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urinary chloride

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Batlle D, Chen S, Haque SK. Physiologic principles in the clinical evaluation
of electrolyte, water, and acid-base disorders. In: Alpern RJ, Moe OW, Caplan
M, eds. _Seldin and Giebisch's The Kidney_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:chap 74.

Tolwani AJ, Saha MK, Wille KM. Metabolic acidosis and alkalosis. In: Vincent
J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 104.

## Review Date 7/15/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

