Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003480.htm    
                                Description: Albumin is a protein made by the liver. A serum albumin test measures the amount of this protein in the clear liquid portion of the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Albumin blood (serum) test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003480.htm

# Albumin blood (serum) test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Albumin is a protein made by the liver. A serum albumin test measures the
amount of this protein in the clear liquid portion of the blood.

Albumin can also be measured in the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking certain
medicines that can affect the test. Drugs that can increase albumin levels
include:

    * Anabolic steroids 
    * Androgens 
    * Growth hormone
    * Insulin

Do not stop taking any of your medicines without talking to your provider
first.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Albumin helps move many small molecules through the blood, including
bilirubin, calcium, progesterone, and medicines. It plays an important role in
keeping the fluid in the blood from leaking into the tissues.

This test can help determine if you haveÂ liver disease or kidney disease, or
if your body is not absorbing enough protein.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 3.4 to 5.4 g/dL (34 to 54 g/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Lower-than-normal level of serum albumin may be a sign of:

    * Kidney diseases
    * Liver disease (for example, hepatitis, or cirrhosisÂ that may cause ascites)

Decreased blood albumin may occur when your body does not get or absorb enough
nutrients, such as with:

    * After weight-loss surgery
    * Crohn diseaseÂ (inflammation of the digestive tract)
    * Low-protein diets
    * Celiac diseaseÂ (damage of the lining of the small intestine due to eating gluten)
    * Whipple diseaseÂ (condition that prevents the small intestine from allowing nutrients to pass into the rest of the body)

Increased blood albumin may be due to:

    * Dehydration
    * High protein diet
    * Having a tourniquet on for a long time when giving a blood sample

Drinking too much water (water intoxication) may also cause abnormal albumin
results.Â

Other conditions for which the test may be performed:

    * Burns (widespread)
    * Wilson diseaseÂ (condition in which there is too much copper in the body)

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood collecting under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

If you are receiving large amounts of intravenous fluids, the results of this
test may be inaccurate.

Albumin will be decreased during pregnancy.

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. AlbuminÂ - serum, urine, and 24-hour urine. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:110-112.

McPherson RA. Specific proteins. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

## Review Date 1/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Celiac
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CeliacDisease_thumb.jpg)Celiac Disease
_Read more_

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

