Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003770.htm    
                                Description: A renal venogram is a test to look at the veins in the kidney. It uses x-rays and a special dye (called contrast).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal venogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003770.htm

# Renal venogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A renal venogram is a test to look at the veins in the kidney. It uses x-rays
and a special dye (called contrast).

X-rays are a form of electromagnetic radiation like light, but of higher
energy, so they can move through the body to form an image. Structures that
are dense (such as bone) will appear white and air will be black. Other
structures will be shades of gray.

Veins are not normally seen in an x-ray. That is why the special dye is
needed. The dye highlights the veins so they show up better on x-rays.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done in a health care facility with special equipment. You will
lie on an x-ray table. Local anesthetic is used to numb the area where the dye
is injected. You may ask for a calming medicine (sedative) if you are anxious
about the test.

The health care provider places a needle into a vein, most often in the groin,
but occasionally in the neck. Next, a flexible tube, called a catheter (which
is the width of the tip of a pen), is inserted into the groin and moved
through the vein until it reaches the vein in the kidney. A blood sample may
be taken from each kidney. The contrast dye flows through this tube. X-rays
are taken as the dye moves through the kidney veins.

This procedure is monitored by fluoroscopy, a type of x-ray that creates
images on a TV screen.

Once the images are taken, the catheter is removed and a bandage is placed
over the wound.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be told to avoid food and drinks for about 8 hours before the test.
Your provider may tell you to stop taking aspirin or other blood thinners
before the test. DO NOT stop taking any medicine without first talking to your
provider.

You will be asked to wear hospital clothing and to sign a consent form for the
procedure. You will need to remove any jewelry from the area that is being
studied.

Tell the provider if you:

    * Are pregnant
    * Have allergies to any medicine, contrast dye, or iodine
    * Have a history of bleeding problems 

## How the Test will Feel

You will lie flat on the x-ray table. There is often a cushion, but it is not
as comfortable as a bed. You may feel a sting when the local anesthesia
medicine is given. You will not feel the dye. You may feel some pressure and
discomfort as the catheter is positioned. You may feel symptoms, such as
flushing, when the dye is injected.

There may be mild tenderness and bruising at the site where the catheter was
placed.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is not done very often anymore. It has largely been replaced by CT
scan and MRI. In the past, the test was used to measure levels of kidney
hormones.

Rarely, the test may be used to detect blood clots, tumors, and vein problems.
Its most common use today is as part of an exam to treat varicose veins of the
testicles or ovaries.

## Normal Results

There should not be any clots or tumors in the kidney vein. The dye should
flow quickly through the vein and not back up to the testes or ovaries.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Blood clot that partially or completely blocks the vein
    * Kidney tumor
    * Vein problem 

## Risks

Risks from this test may include:

    * Allergic reaction to the contrast dye
    * Bleeding
    * Blood clots
    * Injury to a vein 

There is low-level radiation exposure. However, most experts feel that the
risk of most x-rays is smaller than other risks we take every day. Pregnant
women and children are more sensitive to the risks of the x-ray.

## Alternative Names

Venogram - renal; Venography; Venogram - kidney; Renal vein thrombosis -
venogram

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Renal veins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9819t.jpg)Renal veins

## References

Perico N, Remuzzi A, Remuzzi G. Pathophysiology of proteinuria. In: Yu ASL,
Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 30.

Pin RH, Ayad MT, Gillespie D. Venography. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

Wymer DTG, Wymer DC. Imaging. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ,
eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 5.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

