Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003599.htm    
                                Description: The sodium urine test measures the amount of sodium in a certain amount of urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sodium urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003599.htm

# Sodium urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The sodium urine test measures the amount of sodium in a certain amount of
urine.

Sodium can also be measured in a blood sample.

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested in the lab. If needed, the
health care provider may ask you to collect your urine at home over 24 hours.
Your provider will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly so
that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will ask you to temporarily stop taking any medicines that may
affect the test result. Tell your provider about all the medicines you take,
including:

    * Corticosteroids
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Prostaglandins (used to treat conditions such as glaucoma or stomach ulcers)
    * Water pills (diuretics) 

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is often used to help determine the cause of an abnormal sodium blood
level. It also checks whether your kidneys are removing sodium from the body.
It may be used to diagnose or monitor many types of kidney diseases.

## Normal Results

For adults, normal urine sodium values are generally 20 mEq/L in a random
urine sample and 40 to 220 mEq/L per day. Your result depends on how much
fluid and salt you take in.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal urine sodium level may be due to:

    * Certain medicines, such as water pills (diuretics)
    * Low function of the adrenal glands
    * Inflammation of the kidney that results in salt loss (salt-losing nephropathy)
    * Too much salt in the diet 

A lower than normal urine sodium level may be a sign of:

    * Adrenal glands releasing too much hormone (hyperaldosteronism)
    * Not enough fluid in the body (dehydration)
    * Diarrhea and fluid loss
    * Heart failure
    * Kidney problems, such as long-term (chronic) kidney disease or kidney failure
    * Scarring of the liver (cirrhosis) 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urinary 24 hours sodium; Urine Na+

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Batlle D, Chen S, Haque SK. Physiologic principles in the clinical evaluation
of electrolyte, water, and acid-base disorders. In: Alpern RJ, Orson WM,
Caplan M, eds. _Seldin and Giebisch's The Kidney_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 74.

Kamel KS, Davids MR, Lin S-H, Halperin ML. Interpretation of electrolyte and
acid-base parameters in blood and urine. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Oh MS, Briefel G. Evaluation of renal function, water, electrolytes, and acid-
base balance. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis
and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 7/15/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Sodium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Salt2_thumb.jpg)Sodium _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

