Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/calcium-in-urine-test/    
                                Description: A calcium in urine test measures calcium levels in urine. Abnormal calcium levels may indicate a kidney stone or other medical condition. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Calcium in Urine Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/calcium-in-urine-test/

# Calcium in Urine Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a calcium in urine test?

A calcium in urine test measures the amount of calcium in your urine. Calcium
is one of the most important minerals in your body. You need calcium for
healthy bones and teeth. Calcium is also essential for proper functioning of
your nerves, muscles, and heart. Almost all of your body's calcium is stored
in your bones. A small amount circulates in the blood, and the remainder is
filtered by the kidneys and passed into your urine. If urine calcium levels
are too high or too low, it may mean you have a medical condition, such as
kidney disease or kidney stones. Kidney stones are hard, pebble-like
substances that can form in one or both kidneys when calcium or other minerals
build up in the urine. Most kidney stones are formed from calcium.

Too much or too little calcium in the blood can also indicate a kidney
disorder, as well as certain bone diseases, and other medical problems. So if
you have symptoms of one of these disorders, your health care provider may
order a calcium blood test, along with a calcium in urine test. In addition, a
calcium blood test is often included as part of a regular check-up.

Other names: urinalysis (calcium)

## What is it used for?

A calcium in urine test may be used to diagnose or monitor kidney function or
kidney stones. It may also be used to diagnose disorders of the parathyroid, a
gland near the thyroid that helps regulate the amount of calcium in your body.

## Why do I need a calcium in urine test?

You may need a calcium in urine test if you have symptoms of a kidney stone.
These symptoms include:

    * Severe back pain
    * Abdominal pain
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Blood in the urine
    * Frequent urination

You may also need a calcium in urine test if you have symptoms of a
parathyroid disorder.

Symptoms of too much parathyroid hormone include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Loss of appetite
    * Abdominal pain
    * Fatigue
    * Frequent urination
    * Bone and joint pain

Symptoms of too little parathyroid hormone include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Muscle cramps
    * Tingling fingers
    * Dry skin
    * Brittle nails

## What happens during a calcium in urine test?

You'll need to collect all your urine during a 24-hour period. This is called
a 24-hour urine sample test. Your health care provider or a laboratory
professional will give you a container to collect your urine in and
instructions on how to collect and store your samples. A 24-hour urine sample
test generally includes the following steps:

    * Empty your bladder in the morning and flush that urine down. Do not collect this urine. Record the time.
    * For the next 24 hours, save all your urine in the container provided.
    * Store your urine container in a refrigerator or a cooler with ice.
    * Return the sample container to your health provider's office or the laboratory as instructed.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may be asked to avoid certain foods and medicines for several days before
the test. Your health care provider will let you know if there are any special
instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a calcium in urine test.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show higher than normal calcium levels in your urine, it may
indicate:

    * Risk for or the presence of a kidney stone
    * Hyperparathyroidism, a condition in which your parathyroid gland produces too much parathyroid hormone
    * Sarcoidosis, a disease that causes inflammation in the lungs, lymph nodes, or other organs
    * Too much calcium in your diet from vitamin D supplements or milk

If your results show lower than normal calcium levels in your urine, it may
indicate:

    * Hypoparathyroidism, a condition in which your parathyroid gland produces too little parathyroid hormone
    * Vitamin D deficiency
    * A kidney disorder

If your calcium levels are not normal, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a
medical condition needing treatment. Other factors, such as diet, supplements,
and certain medicines, including antacids, can affect your urine calcium
levels. If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care
provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a calcium in urine test?

A calcium in urine test does not tell you how much calcium is in your bones.
Bone health can be measured with a type of x-ray called a bone density scan,
or dexa scan. A dexa scan measures the mineral content, including calcium, and
other aspects of your bones.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Calcium, Serum; Calcium and Phosphates, Urine; 118â9 p.
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Calcium: At a Glance [updated 2017 May 1; cited 2017 May 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/calcium/tab/glance
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Calcium: The Test [updated 2017 May 1; cited 2017 May 9]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/calcium/tab/test
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Calcium: The Test Sample [updated 2017 May 1; cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/calcium/tab/sample
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: 24-Hour Urine Sample [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/urine-24
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: Hyperparathyroidism [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/hyperparathyroidism
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: Hypoparathyroidism [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/hypoparathyroidism
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Kidney Stone Analysis: The Test [updated 2015 Oct 30; cited 2017 May 9]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/kidney-stone-analysis/tab/test
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Parathyroid Diseases [updated 2016 June 6; cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/conditions/parathyroid-diseases
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Hyperparathyroidism: Symptoms; 2015 Dec 24 [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hyperparathyroidism/symptoms-causes/syc-20356194
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Hypoparathyroidism: Symptoms and Causes; 2017 May 5 [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hypoparathyroidism/symptoms-causes/dxc-20318175
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Kidney Stones: Symptoms; 2015 Feb 26 [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/kidney-stones/symptoms-causes/syc-20355755
    13. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Overview of Calcium's Role in the Body [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/overview-of-calcium-s-role-in-the-body
    14. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: hyperparathyroidism [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=458097
    15. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: parathyroid gland [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=44554
    16. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: sarcoidosis [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=367472
    17. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Definitions & Facts for Kidney Stones; 2016 Sep [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/urologic-diseases/kidney-stones/definition-facts
    18. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Diagnosis of Kidney Stones; 2016 Sep [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/urologic-diseases/kidney-stones/diagnosis
    19. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: 24-Hour Urine Collection [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=92&ContentID;=P08955
    20. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Calcium (Urine) [cited 2017 May 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=calcium_urine

## Related Health Topics

    * Calcium
    * Paget's Disease of Bone
    * Vitamin D Deficiency

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Calcium Blood Test
    * Crystals in Urine
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Kidney Stone Analysis
    * Uric Acid Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

