Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bun-blood-urea-nitrogen/    
                                Description: Learn more about a BUN (blood urea nitrogen) test, which can provide important information about your kidney function.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

BUN (Blood Urea Nitrogen)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bun-blood-urea-nitrogen/

# BUN (Blood Urea Nitrogen)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a BUN (blood urea nitrogen) test?

A BUN, or blood urea nitrogen test, can provide important information about
your kidney function. The main job of your kidneys is to remove waste and
extra fluid from your body. If you have kidney disease, this waste material
can build up in your blood and may lead to serious health problems, including
high blood pressure, anemia, and heart disease.

The test measures the amount of urea nitrogen in your blood. Urea nitrogen is
one of the waste products removed from your blood by your kidneys. Higher than
normal BUN levels may be a sign that your kidneys aren't working efficiently.

People with early kidney disease may not have any symptoms. A BUN test can
help uncover kidney problems at an early stage when treatment can be more
effective.

Other names for a BUN test: Urea nitrogen test, serum BUN

## What is it used for?

A BUN test is often part of a series of tests called a comprehensive metabolic
panel, and can be used to help diagnose or monitor a kidney disease or
disorder.

## Why do I need a BUN test?

Your health care provider may order a BUN test as part of a routine check-up
or if you have or are at risk for a kidney problem. Although early kidney
disease usually does not have any signs or symptoms, certain factors can put
you at a higher risk. These include:

    * Family history of kidney problems
    * Diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * Heart disease

In addition, your BUN levels may be checked if you are experiencing symptoms
of later stage kidney disease, such as:

    * Needing to go the bathroom (urinate) frequently or infrequently
    * Itching
    * Recurring fatigue
    * Swelling in your arms, legs, or feet
    * Muscle cramps
    * Trouble sleeping

## What happens during a BUN test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a BUN test. If your health care
provider has also ordered other blood tests, you may need to fast (not eat or
drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care provider will let
you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Normal BUN levels can vary, but generally a high level of blood urea nitrogen
is a sign that your kidneys are not working correctly. However, abnormal
results don't always indicate that you have a medical condition needing
treatment. Higher than normal BUN levels can also be caused by dehydration,
burns, certain medicines, a high protein diet, or other factors, including
your age. BUN levels normally increase as you get older. To learn what your
results mean, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a BUN test?

A BUN test is only one type of measurement of kidney function. If your health
care provider suspects you have kidney disease, additional tests may be
recommended. These may include a measurement of creatinine, which is another
waste product filtered by your kidneys, and a test called a GFR (Glomerular
Filtration Rate), which estimates how well your kidneys are filtering blood.

## References

    1. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Blood Urea Nitrogen; [updated 2018 Dec 19; cited 2019 Jan 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/blood-urea-nitrogen-bun
    2. Lyman JL. Blood urea nitrogen and creatinine. Emerg Med Clin North Am [Internet]. 1986 May 4 [cited 2017 Jan 30]; 4(2):223â33. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3516645
    3. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN) Test: Overview; 2016 Jul 2 [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/blood-urea-nitrogen/home/ovc-20211239
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN) Test: Results; 2016 Jul 2 [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/blood-urea-nitrogen/details/results/rsc-20211280
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Chronic Kidney Disease; 2016 Aug 9; [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/chronic-kidney-disease/symptoms-causes/dxc-20207466
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Types of Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/types
    7. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    9. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Kidney Disease Basics; [updated 2012 Mar 1; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-communication-programs/nkdep/learn/causes-kidney-disease/kidney-disease-basics/pages/kidney-disease-basics.aspx
    10. National Kidney Disease Education Program: Laboratory Evaluation [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; National Kidney Disease Education Program: Your Kidney Test Results; [updated 2013 Feb; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/communication-programs/nkdep/laboratory-evaluation
    11. National Kidney Foundation [Internet]. New York: National Kidney Foundation Inc., c2016. About Chronic Kidney Disease; [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.kidney.org/kidneydisease/aboutckd

## Related Health Topics

    * Kidney Diseases
    * Kidney Tests

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP)
    * Creatinine Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

