Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003524.htm    
                                Description: The glomerular basement membrane is the part of the kidney that helps filter waste and extra fluid from the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-glomerular basement membrane blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003524.htm

# Anti-glomerular basement membrane blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The glomerular basement membrane is the part of the kidney that helps filter
waste and extra fluid from the blood.

Anti-glomerular basement membrane antibodies are antibodies against this
membrane. They can lead to kidney damage. This article describes the blood
test to detect these antibodies.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain,
while others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to diagnose certain kidney diseases, such as Goodpasture
syndrome and anti-glomerular basement membrane disease.

## Normal Results

Normally, there are none of these antibodies in the blood. Normal value ranges
may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use different
measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor about the meaning
of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Antibodies in the blood may mean any of the following:

    * Anti-glomerular basement membrane disease
    * Goodpasture syndrome

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

GBM antibody test; Antibody to human glomerular basement membrane; Anti-GBM
antibodies

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Phelps RG, Turner AN. Anti-glomerular basement membrane disease and
Goodpasture disease. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds.
_Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 24.

Saha MK, Pendergraft WF, Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Primary glomerular disease. In:
Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner
and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

