Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003592.htm    
                                Description: Urine immunoelectrophoresis is a lab test that measures immunoglobulins in a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immunoelectrophoresis - urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003592.htm

# Immunoelectrophoresis - urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine immunoelectrophoresis is a lab test that measures immunoglobulins in a
urine sample.

Immunoglobulins are proteins that function as antibodies, which fight
infection. There are various types of these proteins that fight different
types of infections. Some immunoglobulins can be abnormal and may be due to
cancer.

Immunoglobulins can also be measured in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is used to
prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample. To
collect your urine, the health care provider may give you a special clean-
catch kit that contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow
instructions exactly.

After you provide a urine sample, it is sent to the laboratory. There, the
laboratory specialist will place the urine sample on special paper and apply
an electric current. The various proteins move and form visible bands, which
reveal the general amounts of each protein.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may ask you to collect the first morning urine, which is the
most concentrated.

If you are taking the collection from an infant, you may need extra collection
bags.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to measure the amounts of various immunoglobulins in urine.
Most often, it is done after a large amount of protein is found in the urine.

## Normal Results

Normally there is no protein, or only a small amount of protein in the urine.
When there is protein in the urine, it normally consists of mainly albumin.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Immunoglobulin in the urine can result from:

    * An abnormal buildup of proteins in tissues and organs (amyloidosis)
    * Leukemia
    * Blood cancer called multiple myeloma
    * Kidney disorders such as IgA nephropathy or IgM nephropathy

Some people have monoclonal immunoglobulins, but do not have cancer. This is
called monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance, or MGUS.

## Alternative Names

Immunoglobulin electrophoresis - urine; Gamma globulin electrophoresis -
urine; Urine immunoglobulin electrophoresis; IEP - urine

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Protein electrophoresis â urine. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:920-923.

McPherson RA. Specific proteins. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Multiple
Myeloma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleMyeloma_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Myeloma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

