Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000648.htm    
                                Description: The peritoneum is the thin tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers most of the organs. Peritonitis is present when this tissue becomes inflamed or infected.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peritonitis - spontaneous bacterial

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000648.htm

# Peritonitis - spontaneous bacterial

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The peritoneum is the thin tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and
covers most of the organs. Peritonitis is present when this tissue becomes
inflamed or infected.

Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) is present when this tissue becomes
infected and there is no clear cause.

## Causes

SBP is most often caused by infection in fluid that collects in the peritoneal
cavity (ascites). The fluid buildup often occurs with advanced liver or kidney
disease.

Risk factors for liver disease include:

    * Very heavy alcohol use 
    * Chronic hepatitis B or hepatitis C
    * Other diseases that lead to cirrhosis

SBP also occurs in people who are on peritoneal dialysis for kidney failure.

Peritonitis may have other causes. These includeÂ infectionÂ from other organs
or leakage of enzymes or other toxins into the abdomen.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain and bloating
    * Abdominal tenderness
    * Fever
    * Low urine output

Other symptoms include:

    * Chills
    * Joint pain
    * Nausea and vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Tests will be done to check for infection and other causes of abdominal pain:

    * Blood culture
    * White blood cell count in a sample of peritoneal fluid 
    * Chemical examination of peritoneal fluid 
    * Culture of peritoneal fluid
    * CT scan or ultrasound of the abdomen 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the SBP.

    * Surgery may be needed if SBP is caused by a foreign object, such as a catheter used in peritoneal dialysis. 
    * Antibiotics to control infection.
    * Fluids given through the veins. 

You will need to stay in the hospital so health care providers can rule out
other causes such as a ruptured appendix and diverticulitis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the infection can be treated. However, kidney or liver disease
may limit recovery.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Loss of brain function occurs when the liver is unable to remove toxins from the blood.
    * Kidney problem caused by liver failure.
    * Sepsis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of peritonitis. This can be a medical
emergency situation.

## Prevention

Steps should be taken to prevent infection in people with peritoneal
catheters.

Continuous antibiotics may be used:

    * To prevent peritonitis from coming back in people with liver failure
    * To prevent peritonitis in people who have acute gastrointestinal bleeding due to other conditions

## Alternative Names

Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP); Ascites - peritonitis; Cirrhosis -
peritonitis

## Images

    * ![Peritoneal sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8715t.jpg)Peritoneal sample

## References

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 153.

Kuemmerle JF. Inflammatory and anatomic diseases of the intestine, peritoneum,
mesentery, and omentum. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 142.

Runyon BA. Ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Dialysis
_Read more_

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

