Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000512.htm    
                                Description: Acute tubular necrosis (ATN) is a kidney disorder involving damage to the tubule cells of the kidneys, which can lead to acute kidney failure. The tubules are tiny ducts in the kidneys that help filter    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute tubular necrosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000512.htm

# Acute tubular necrosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute tubular necrosis (ATN) is a kidney disorder involving damage to the
tubule cells of the kidneys, which can lead to acute kidney failure. The
tubules are tiny ducts in the kidneys that help filter the blood when it
passes through the kidneys.

## Causes

ATN is often caused by a lack of blood flow and oxygen to the kidney tissues
(ischemia of the kidneys). It may also occur if the kidney cells are damaged
by a poison or harmful substance.

The internal structures of the kidney, particularly the tissues of the kidney
tubule, become damaged or destroyed. ATN is one of the most common structural
changes that can lead to acute kidney failure.

ATN is a common cause of kidney failure in people who are in the hospital.
Risks for ATN include:

    * Blood transfusion reaction
    * Injury or trauma that damages the muscles
    * Low blood pressure (hypotension) that lasts longer than 30 minutes
    * Recent major surgery
    * Septic shock (serious condition that occurs when a body-wide infection leads to dangerously low blood pressure)

Liver disease and kidney damage caused by diabetes (diabetic nephropathy) may
make a person more prone to develop ATN.

ATN can also be caused by medicines that are toxic to the kidneys. These
medicines include aminoglycoside antibiotics and the antifungal drug
amphotericin.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Decreased consciousness, coma, delirium or confusion, drowsiness, and lethargy
    * Decreased urine output or no urine output
    * General swelling, fluid retention
    * Nausea, vomiting

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The provider may hear
abnormal sounds when listening to the heart and lungs with a stethoscope. This
is due to too much fluid in the body.

Tests that may be done include:

    * BUN and serum creatinine
    * Fractional excretion of sodium
    * Kidney biopsy
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine sodium
    * Urine specific gravity and urine osmolarity

## Treatment

In most people, ATN is reversible. The goal of treatment is to prevent life-
threatening complications of acute kidney failure

Treatment focuses on preventing the buildup of fluids and wastes, while
allowing the kidneys to heal.

Treatment may include any of the following:

    * Identifying and treating the underlying cause of the problem
    * Restricting fluid intake
    * Taking medicines to help control potassium level in the blood
    * Medicines taken by mouth or through an IV to help remove fluid from the body 

Temporary dialysis can remove excess waste and fluids. This can help improve
your symptoms so thatÂ you feel better. It may also make kidney failure easier
to control. Dialysis may not be necessary for all people, but is often
lifesaving, especially if potassium is dangerously high.

Dialysis may be needed in the following cases:

    * Decreased mental status
    * Fluid overload
    * Increased potassium level
    * Pericarditis (inflammation of the sac-like covering around the heart)
    * Removal of toxins that are dangerous to the kidneys
    * Total lack of urine production
    * Uncontrolled buildup of nitrogen waste products 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

ATN can last for a few days to 6 weeks or more. This may be followed by 1 or 2
days of making an unusually large amount of urine as the kidneys recover.
Kidney function often returns to normal, but there may be other serious
problems and complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your urine output decreases or stops, or if you develop
other symptoms of ATN.

## Prevention

Promptly treating conditions that can lead to decreased blood flow as well as
decreased oxygen to the kidneys can reduce the risk for ATN.

Blood transfusions are crossmatched to reduce the risk of incompatibility
reactions.

Diabetes, liver disorders, and heart problems need to be managed well to
reduce the risk for ATN.

If you know you're taking medicine that can injure your kidneys, ask your
provider about having your blood level of the medicine checked regularly.

Drink a lot of fluids after having any contrast dyes to allow them to be
removed from the body and reduce the risk for kidney damage.

## Alternative Names

Necrosis - renal tubular; ATN; Necrosis - acute tubular

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Turner JM, Coca SG. Acute tubular injury and acute tubular necrosis. In:
Gilbert SJ, Weiner DE, eds. _National Kidney Foundation's Primer on Kidney
Diseases_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 32.

Weisbord SD, Palevsky PM. Prevention and management of acute kidney injury.
In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds.
_Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 29.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

