Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000501.htm    
                                Description: Acute kidney failure is the rapid (less than 2 days) loss of your kidneys    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute kidney failure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000501.htm

# Acute kidney failure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute kidney failure is the rapid (less than 2 days) loss of your kidneys'
ability to remove waste and help balance fluids and electrolytes in your body.

## Causes

There are many possible causes of kidney damage. They include:

    * Acute tubular necrosis (ATN; damage to the tubule cells of the kidneys)
    * Autoimmune kidney disease
    * Blood clot from cholesterol (cholesterol emboli)
    * Decreased blood flow due to very low blood pressure, which can result from burns,Â dehydration, hemorrhage, injury, septic shock, serious illness, or surgery
    * Disorders that cause clotting within the kidney blood vessels
    * Infections that directly injure the kidney, such as acute pyelonephritis or septicemia
    * Pregnancy complications, including placenta abruption or placenta previa
    * Urinary tract blockage
    * Illicit drugs such as cocaine and heroine
    * Medicines including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), certain antibiotics and blood pressure medicines, intravenous contrast (dye), some cancer and HIV drugs 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of acute kidney failure may include any of the following:

    * Bloody stools
    * Breath odor and metallic taste in the mouth
    * Bruising easily
    * Changes in mental status or mood
    * Decreased appetite
    * Decreased sensation, especially in the hands or feet
    * FatigueÂ or slow sluggish movements
    * Flank pain (between the ribs and hips)
    * Hand tremor
    * Heart murmur
    * High blood pressureÂ Â 
    * Nausea or vomiting, may last for days
    * Nosebleeds
    * Persistent hiccups
    * Prolonged bleeding
    * Seizures
    * Shortness of breath
    * Swelling due to the body keeping in fluid (may be seen in the legs, ankles, and feet)
    * Urination changes, such as little or no urine, excessive urination at night, or urination that stops completely 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you.

Tests to check how well your kidneys are working include:

    * BUN
    * Creatinine clearance
    * Serum creatinine
    * Serum potassium
    * Urinalysis

Other blood tests may be done to find the underlying cause of kidney failure.

A kidney or abdominal ultrasound is the preferred test for diagnosing a
blockage in the urinary tract. X-ray, CT scan, or MRI of the abdomen can also
tell if there is a blockage.

## Treatment

Once the cause is found, the goal of treatment is to help your kidneys work
again and prevent fluid and waste from building up in your body while they
heal. Usually, you willÂ have to stay overnight in the hospital for treatment.

The amount of liquid you drink will be limited to the amount of urine you can
produce. You will be told what you may and may not eat to reduce the buildup
of toxins that the kidneys would normally remove. Your diet may need to be
high in carbohydrates and low in protein, salt, and potassium.

You may need antibiotics to treat or prevent infection. Water pills
(diuretics) may be used to help remove fluid from your body.

Medicines will be given through a vein to help control your blood potassium
level.

You may need dialysis. This is a treatment that does what healthy kidneys
normally do -- rid the body of harmful wastes, extra salt, and water. Dialysis
can save your life if your potassium levels are dangerously high. Dialysis
will also be used if:

    * Your mental status changes 
    * You develop pericarditis 
    * You retain too much fluid 
    * You cannot remove nitrogen waste products from your body 

Dialysis will most often be short term. In some cases, the kidney damage is so
great that dialysis is needed permanently.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your urine output slows or stops or you have other
symptoms of acute kidney failure.

## Prevention

To prevent acute kidney failure:

    * Health problems such as high blood pressure or diabetes should be well controlled.
    * Avoid drugs and medicines that can cause kidney injury.

## Alternative Names

Kidney failure; Renal failure; Renal failure - acute; ARF; Kidney injury -
acute

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Molitoris BA. Acute kidney injury. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 120.

Oh MS, Briefel G. Evaluation of renal function, water, electrolytes, and acid-
base balance. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis
and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

Sharfuddin AA, Weisbord SD, Palevsky PM, Molitoris BA. Acute kidney injury.
In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

## Review Date 4/13/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

