Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000508.htm    
                                Description: Prerenal azotemia is an abnormally high level of nitrogen waste products in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prerenal azotemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000508.htm

# Prerenal azotemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prerenal azotemia is an abnormally high level of nitrogen waste products in
the blood.

## Causes

Prerenal azotemia is common, especially in older adults and in people who are
in the hospital.

The kidneys filter the blood. They also make urine to remove waste products.
When the amount, or pressure, of blood flow through the kidney drops,
filtering of the blood also drops. Or it may not occur at all. Waste products
stay in the blood. Little or no urine is made, even though the kidney itself
is working.

When nitrogen waste products, such as creatinine and urea, build up in the
body, the condition is called azotemia. These waste products act as poisons
when they build up. They damage tissues and reduce the ability of the organs
to function.

Prerenal azotemia is the most common form of kidney failure in hospitalized
people. Any condition that reduces blood flow to the kidney may cause it,
including:

    * Burns
    * Conditions that allow fluid to escape from the bloodstream
    * Long-term vomiting, diarrhea, or bleeding
    * Heat exposure
    * Decreased fluid intake (dehydration)
    * Loss of blood volume
    * Certain medicines, such as ACE inhibitors (drugs that treat heart failure or high blood pressure) and NSAIDs

Conditions in which the heart cannot pump enough blood or pumps blood at a low
volume also increase the risk for prerenal azotemia. These conditions include:

    * Heart failure
    * Shock (septic shock) 

It can also be caused by conditions that interrupt blood flow to the kidney,
such as:

    * Certain types of surgery
    * Injury to the kidney
    * Blockage of the artery that supplies blood to the kidney (renal artery occlusion) 

## Symptoms

Prerenal azotemia may have no symptoms. Or, symptoms of the causes of prerenal
azotemia may be present.

Symptoms of dehydration may be present and include any of the following:

    * Confusion
    * Decreased or no urine production
    * Dry mouth due to thirst
    * Fast pulse
    * Fatigue
    * Pale skin color
    * Swelling

## Exams and Tests

An examination may show:

    * Collapsed neck veins
    * Dry mucous membranes
    * Little or no urine in the bladder
    * Low blood pressure
    * Low heart function or hypovolemia
    * Poor skin elasticity (turgor)
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Reduced pulse pressure
    * Signs of acute kidney failure

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood creatinine
    * BUN
    * Urine osmolality and specific gravity
    * Urine tests to check sodium and creatinine levels and to monitor kidney function 

## Treatment

The main goal of treatment is to quickly correct the cause before the kidney
becomes damaged. PeopleÂ often need to stay in the hospital.

Intravenous (IV) fluids, including blood or blood products, may be used to
increase blood volume. After blood volume has been restored, medicines may be
used to:

    * Increase blood pressure
    * Improve the pumping of the heart 

If the person has symptoms of acute kidney failure, treatment will likely
include:

    * Dialysis
    * Diet changes
    * Medicines 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prerenal azotemia can be reversed if the cause can be found and corrected
within 24 hours. If the cause is not fixed quickly, damage may occur to the
kidney (acute tubular necrosis).

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute kidney failure
    * Acute tubular necrosis (tissue death) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms of prerenal azotemia.

## Prevention

Quickly treating any condition that reduces the volume or force of blood flow
through the kidneys may help prevent prerenal azotemia.

## Alternative Names

Azotemia - prerenal; Uremia; Renal underperfusion; Acute renal failure -
prerenal azotemia

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Goldfarb DA, Poggio ED, Demirjian S. Etiology, pathogenesis, and management of
renal failure. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 46.

Wolfson AB. Renal failure. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 87.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

