Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000489.htm    
                                Description: Hepatorenal syndrome is a condition in which there is progressive kidney failure. It occurs in a person with cirrhosis of the liver. It is a serious complication that can lead to death.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatorenal syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000489.htm

# Hepatorenal syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatorenal syndrome is a condition in which there is progressive kidney
failure. It occurs in a person with cirrhosis of the liver. It is a serious
complication that can lead to death.

## Causes

Hepatorenal syndrome occurs when the kidneys stop working well in people with
serious liver problems. Less urine is removed from the body, so waste products
that contain nitrogen build up in the bloodstream (azotemia).

The disorder occurs in up to 1 in 10 people who are in the hospital with liver
failure. It leads to kidney failure in people with:

    * Acute liver failure
    * Alcoholic hepatitis
    * Cirrhosis
    * Infected abdominal fluid

Risk factors include:

    * Blood pressure that falls when a person rises or suddenly changes position (orthostatic hypotension)
    * Use of medicines called diuretics ("water pills")
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding
    * Infection
    * Recent abdominal fluid tap (paracentesis) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal swelling due to fluid (called ascites, a symptom of liver disease)
    * Mental confusion
    * Muscle jerks
    * Dark-colored urineÂ (a symptom of liver disease)
    * Decreased urine output
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Weight gain
    * Yellow skin (jaundice, a symptom of liver disease) 

## Exams and Tests

This condition is diagnosed after testing to rule out other causes of kidney
failure.

A physical exam does not detect kidney failure directly. However, the exam
will very often show signs of chronic liver disease, such as:

    * Confusion (often due to hepatic encephalopathy)
    * Excess fluid in the abdomen (ascites)
    * Jaundice
    * Other signs of liver failure 

Other signs include:

    * Abnormal reflexes
    * Smaller testicles
    * Dull sound in the belly area when tapped with the tips of the fingers
    * Increased breast tissue (gynecomastia)
    * Sores (lesions) on the skin 

The following may be signs of kidney failure:

    * Very little or no urine output
    * Fluid retention in the abdomen or extremities
    * Increased BUN and creatinine blood levels
    * Increased urine specific gravity and osmolality
    * Low blood sodium
    * Very low urine sodium concentration 

The following may be signs of liver failure:

    * Abnormal prothrombin time (PT)
    * Increased blood ammonia level
    * Low blood albumin
    * Paracentesis shows ascites
    * Signs of hepatic encephalopathy (an EEG may be done) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to help the liver work better and to make sure the
heart is able to pump enough blood to the body.

Treatment is about the same as for kidney failure from any cause. It includes:

    * Stopping all unnecessary medicines, especially ibuprofen and other NSAIDs, certain antibiotics, and diuretics ("water pills")
    * Having dialysis to improve symptoms
    * Taking medicines to improve blood pressure and help your kidneys work better; infusion of albumin may also be helpful
    * Placing a shunt (known as TIPS) to relieve the symptoms of ascites (this may also help kidney function,Â but the procedure can be risky)
    * Surgery to place a shuntÂ from the abdominal space to the jugular vein to relieve some symptoms of kidney failure (this procedure is risky and is rarely done)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is often poor. Death often occurs due to an infection or severe
bleeding (hemorrhage).

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Damage to, and failure of, many organ systems
    * End-stage kidney disease
    * Fluid overload and heart failure
    * Coma caused by liver failure
    * Secondary infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This disorder most often is diagnosed in the hospital during treatment for a
liver disorder.

## Alternative Names

Cirrhosis - hepatorenal; Liver failure - hepatorenal

## References

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 153.

Nevah MI, Fallon MB. Hepatic encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome,
hepatopulmonary syndrome, and other systemic complications of liver disease.
In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 94.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

