Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001268.htm    
                                Description: Potter syndrome and Potter phenotype refers to a group of findings associated with a lack of amniotic fluid and kidney failure in an unborn infant.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Potter syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001268.htm

# Potter syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Potter syndrome and Potter phenotype refers to a group of findings associated
with a lack of amniotic fluid and kidney failure in an unborn infant.

## Causes

In Potter syndrome, the primary problem is kidney failure. The kidneys fail to
develop properly as the baby is growing in the womb. The kidneys normally
produce the amniotic fluid (as urine).

Potter phenotype refers to a typical facial appearance that occurs in a
newborn when there is no amniotic fluid. The lack of amniotic fluid is called
oligohydramnios. Without amniotic fluid, the infant is not cushioned from the
walls of the uterus. The pressure of the uterine wall leads to an unusual
facial appearance, including widely separated eyes.

Potter phenotype may also lead to abnormal limbs, or limbs that are held in
abnormal positions or contractures.

Oligohydramnios also stops development of the lungs, so the lungs do not work
properly at birth.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Widely separated eyes with epicanthal folds, broad nasal bridge, low set ears, and receding chin
    * Absence of urine output
    * Difficulty breathing

## Exams and Tests

A pregnancy ultrasound may show lack of amniotic fluid, absence of fetal
kidneys, or severely abnormal kidneys in the unborn baby.

The following tests may be used to help diagnose the condition in a newborn:

    * X-ray of the abdomen
    * X-ray of the lungs

## Treatment

Resuscitation at delivery may be attempted pending the diagnosis. Treatment
will be provided for any urinary outlet obstruction.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This is a very serious condition. Most of the time it is deadly. The short-
term outcome depends on the severity of lung involvement. Long-term outcome
depends on the severity of kidney involvement.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Potter phenotype

## Images

    * ![Amniotic fluid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17008t.jpg)Amniotic fluid
    * ![Broad nasal bridge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17097t.jpg)Broad nasal bridge

## References

Joyce E, Ellis D, Miyashita Y. Nephrology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk
AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Congenital and developmental abnormalities of the
urinary tract. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of
Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 168.

Mitchell AL. Congenital anomalies. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds.
_Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 30.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dialysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DialysisandKidneyFailure_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

