Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007375.htm    
                                Description: Percutaneous (through the skin) urinary procedures help drain urine from your kidney and get rid of kidney stones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Percutaneous kidney procedures

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007375.htm

# Percutaneous kidney procedures

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Percutaneous (through the skin) urinary procedures help drain urine from your
kidney and get rid of kidney stones.

## Description

A percutaneous nephrostomy is the placement of a small, flexible rubber tube
(catheter) through your skin into your kidney to drain your urine. It is
inserted through your back or flank.

Percutaneous nephrostolithotomy (or nephrolithotomy) is the passing of a
special medical instrument through your skin into your kidney. This is done to
remove kidney stones.

Most stones pass out of the body on their own through urine. When they do not,
your health care provider may recommend these procedures.

During the procedure, you lie on your stomach on a table. You are given a shot
of lidocaine. This is the same medicine your dentist uses to numb your mouth.
The provider may give you medicines to help you relax and reduce pain.

If you have nephrostomy only:

    * The doctor inserts a needle into your skin. Then the nephrostomy catheter is passed through the needle into your kidney.
    * You may feel pressure and discomfort when the catheter is inserted.
    * A special type of x-ray is used to make sure the catheter is in the right place.

If you have percutaneous nephrostolithotomy (or nephrolithotomy):

    * You will receive general anesthesia so that you will be asleep and feel no pain.
    * The doctor makes a small cut (incision) on your back. A needle is passed through the skin into your kidney.Â Then the tract is dilated and a plastic sheath is left in place allowing a tract to pass instruments.
    * These special instruments are then passed through the sheath. Your doctor uses these to take out the stone or break it into pieces.
    * After the procedure, a tube is placed in the kidney (nephrostomy tube). Another tube, called a stent, is placed in the ureter to drain urine from your kidney. This allows your kidney to heal.

The place where the nephrostomy catheter was inserted is covered with a
dressing. The catheter is connected to a drainage bag.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Reasons to have a percutaneous nephrostomy or nephrostolithotomy are:

    * Your flow of urine is blocked.
    * You are having a lot of pain, even after being treated for a kidney stone.
    * X-rays show the kidney stone is too large to pass by itself or to be treated by going through the bladder to the kidney.
    * Urine is leaking inside your body.
    * The kidney stone is causing urinary tract infections.
    * The kidney stone is damaging your kidney.
    * Infected urine needs to be drained from the kidney.

## Risks

Percutaneous nephrostomy and nephrostolithotomy are generally safe. Ask your
doctor about these possible complications:

    * Pieces of stone left in your body (you may need more treatments)
    * Bleeding around your kidney
    * Problems with kidney function, or kidney(s) that stop working
    * Pieces of the stone blocking urine flow from your kidney, which may cause very bad pain or kidney damage
    * Kidney infection

## Before the Procedure

Tell your provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant.
    * What medicines you are taking. These include medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.
    * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol.
    * You are allergic to contrast dye used during x-rays.

On the day of the surgery:

    * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything for at least 6 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

You are taken to the recovery room. You may be able to eat soon if you do not
have an upset stomach.

You may be able to go home within 24 hours. If there are problems, your doctor
may keep you in the hospital longer.

The doctor will take out the tubes if x-rays show that the kidney stones are
gone and your kidney has healed. If stones are still there, you may have the
same procedure again soon.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Percutaneous nephrostolithotomy or nephrolithotomy almost always helps ease
the symptoms of kidney stones. Often, the doctor is able to remove your kidney
stones completely. You sometimes you need to have other procedures to get rid
of the stones.

Most people who are treated for kidney stones need to make lifestyle changes
so that their bodies do not make new kidney stones. These changes include
avoiding certain foods and not taking certain vitamins. Some people also have
to take medicines to keep new stones from forming.

## Alternative Names

Percutaneous nephrostomy; Percutaneous nephrostolithotomy; PCNL;
Nephrolithotomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - self-care
    * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## References

Georgescu D, Jecu M, Geavlete PA, Geavlete B. Percutaneous nephrostomy. In:
Geavlete PA, ed. _Percutaneous Surgery of the Upper Urinary Tract_. Cambridge,
MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2016:chap 8.

Matlaga BR, Krambeck AE, Lingeman JE. Surgical management of upper urinary
tract calculi. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 54.

Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C. Interventional genitourinary radiology. In:
Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C, eds. _Genitourinary Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 10.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

