Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000458.htm    
                                Description: A kidney stone is a solid mass made up of tiny crystals. One or more stones can be in the kidney or ureter at the same time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kidney stones

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000458.htm

# Kidney stones

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A kidney stone is a solid mass made up of tiny crystals. One or more stones
can be in the kidney or ureter at the same time.

## Causes

![Kidney stones](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200031t.gif)Watch
this video about:Kidney stones

Kidney stones are common. Some types run in families. They often occur in
premature infants.

There are different types of kidney stones. The cause of the problem depends
on the type of stone.

Stones can form when urine contains too much of certain substances that form
crystals. These crystals can develop into stones over weeks or months.

    * Calcium stones are most common. They are most likely to occur in men between ages 20 to 30. Calcium can combine with other substances to form the stone.
    * Oxalate is the most common of these. Oxalate is present in certain foods such as spinach. It is also found in vitamin C supplements. Diseases of the small intestine increase your risk for these stones. 

Calcium stones can also form from combining with phosphate or carbonate.

Other types of stones include:

    * Cystine stones can form in people who have cystinuria. This disorder runs in families. It affects both men and women.
    * Struvite stones are mostly found in women who have a urinary tract infection. These stones can grow very large and can block the kidney, ureter, or bladder.
    * Uric acid stones are more common in men than in women. They can occur with gout or chemotherapy.
    * Other substances such as certain medicines also can form stones. 
![Nephrolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17091.jpg)

The biggest risk factor for kidney stones is not drinking enough fluids.
Kidney stones are more likely to occur if you make less than 1 liter (32
ounces) of urine a day.

## Symptoms

You may not have symptoms until the stones move down the tubes (ureters)
through which urine empties into your bladder. When this happens, the stones
can block the flow of urine out of the kidneys.

The main symptom is severe pain that starts and stops suddenly:

    * Pain may be felt in the belly area or side of the back.
    * Pain may move to the groin area (groin pain), testicles (testicle pain) in men, and labia (vaginal pain) in women. 

Other symptoms can include:

    * Abnormal urine color
    * Blood in the urine
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Nausea and vomiting

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The belly area
(abdomen) or back might feel sore.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests to check calcium, phosphorus, uric acid, and electrolyte levels
    * Kidney function tests
    * Urinalysis to see crystals and look for red blood cells in urine
    * Examination of the stone to determine the type 
![Intravenous pyelogram
\(IVP\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19245.jpg)

Stones or a blockage can be seen on:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal/kidney MRI
    * Abdominal x-rays
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Kidney ultrasound
    * Retrograde pyelogram 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the type of stone and the severity of your symptoms.

Kidney stones that are small most often pass through your system on their own.

    * Your urine should be strained so the stone can be saved and tested.
    * Drink at least 6 to 8 glasses of water per day to produce a large amount of urine. This will help the stone pass.
    * Pain can be very bad. Over-the-counter pain medicines (for example, ibuprofen and naproxen), either alone or along with narcotics, can be very effective. 

Some people with severe pain from kidney stones need to stay in the hospital.
You may need to get fluids through an IV into your vein.

For some types of stones, your provider may prescribe medicine to prevent
stones from forming or help break down and remove the material that is causing
the stone. These medicines can include:

    * Allopurinol (for uric acid stones)
    * Antibiotics (for struvite stones)
    * Diuretics (water pills)
    * Phosphate solutions
    * Sodium bicarbonate or sodium citrate
    * Water pills (thiazide diuretics)
    * Tamsulosin to relax the ureter and help the stone pass 

Surgery is often needed if:

    * The stone is too large to pass on its own
    * The stone is growing
    * The stone is blocking urine flow and causing an infection or kidney damage
    * The pain cannot be controlled 
![Lithotripsy
procedure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19246.jpg)

Today, most treatments are much less invasive than in the past.

    * Lithotripsy is used to remove stones slightly smaller than a half an inch (1.25 centimeters) that are located in the kidney or ureter. It uses sound or shock waves to break up stones into tiny fragments. Then, the stone fragments leave the body in the urine. It is also called extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy or ESWL.
    * Procedures performed by passing a special instrument through a small surgical cut in your skin on your back and into your kidney or ureters are used for large stones, or when the kidneys or surrounding areas are incorrectly formed. The stone is removed with a tube (endoscope).
    * Ureteroscopy may be used for stones in the lower urinary tract.
    * Rarely, open surgery (nephrolithotomy) may be needed if other methods do not work or are not possible. 

Talk to your provider about what treatment options may work for you.

You will need to take self-care steps. Which steps you take depend on the type
of stone you have, but they may include:

    * Drinking extra water and other liquids
    * Eating more of some foods and cutting back on other foods
    * Taking medicines to help prevent stones
    * Taking medicines to help you pass a stone (anti-inflammatory drugs, alpha-blockers) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Kidney stones are painful but most of the time can be removed from the body
without causing lasting damage.

Kidney stones often come back. This occurs more often if the cause is not
found and treated.

You are at risk for:

    * Urinary tract infection
    * Kidney damage or scarring if treatment is delayed for too long 

## Possible Complications

Complication of kidney stones may include the obstruction of the ureter (acute
unilateral obstructive uropathy).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of a kidney stone:

    * Severe pain in your back or side that will not go away
    * Blood in your urine
    * Fever and chills
    * Vomiting
    * Urine that smells bad or looks cloudy
    * A burning feeling when you urinate 

If you have been diagnosed with blockage from a stone, passage must be
confirmed either by capture in a strainer during urination or by follow-up
x-ray. Being pain free does not confirm that the stone has passed.

## Prevention

If you have a history of stones:

    * Drink plenty of fluids (6 to 8 glasses of water per day) to produce enough urine.
    * You may need to take medicine or make changes to your diet for some types of stones.
    * Your provider may want to do blood and urine tests to help determine the proper prevention steps. 

## Alternative Names

Renal calculi; Nephrolithiasis; Stones - kidney; Calcium oxalate - stones;
Cystine - stones; Struvite - stones; Uric acid - stones; Urinary lithiasis

## Patient Instructions

    * Hypercalcemia - discharge
    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - self-care
    * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Nephrolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17091t.jpg)Nephrolithiasis
    * ![Intravenous pyelogram \(IVP\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19245t.jpg)Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * ![Lithotripsy procedure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19246t.jpg)Lithotripsy procedure

## References

Chen W, Monk RD, Bushinsky DA. Nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 57.

Lipkin ME, Ferrandino MN, Preminger GM. Evaluation and medical management of
urinary lithiasis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 52.

NICE Guideline - Renal and ureteric stones: assessment and management: NICE
(2019) Renal and ureteric stones: assessment and management. _BJU Int_.
2019;123(2):220-232. PMID: 30656839 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30656839.

Pearle MS, Goldfarb DS, Assimos DG, et al. Medical management of kidney
stones: AUA guideline. _J Urol_. 2014;192(2):316-324. PMID: 24857648
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24857648.

Qaseem A, Dallas P, Forciea MA, Starkey M, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines
Committee of the American College of Physicians. Dietary and pharmacologic
management to prevent recurrent nephrolithiasis in adults: a clinical practice
guideline from the American College of Physicians. _Ann Intern Med_.
2014;161(9):659-667. PMID: 25364887 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25364887.

## Review Date 3/5/2018

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Internal review and update on 01/24/2020 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

