Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000346.htm    
                                Description: Cystinuria is a rare condition in which stones made from an amino acid called cysteine form in the kidney, ureter, and bladder. Cystine is formed when two molecules of an amino acid called cysteine are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cystinuria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000346.htm

# Cystinuria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cystinuria is a rare condition in which stones made from an amino acid called
cysteine form in the kidney, ureter, and bladder. Cystine is formed when two
molecules of an amino acid called cysteine are bound together. The condition
is passed down through families.

## Causes

To have the symptoms of cystinuria, you must inherit the faulty gene from both
parents. Your children will also inherit a copy of the faulty gene from you.

Cystinuria is caused by too much cystine in the urine. Normally, most cystine
dissolves and returns to the bloodstream after entering the kidneys. People
with cystinuria have a genetic defect that interferes with this process. As a
result, cystine builds up in the urine and forms crystals or stones. These
crystals may get stuck in the kidneys, ureters, or bladder.

About one in every 7000 people have cystinuria. Cystine stones are most common
in young adults under age 40. Less than 3% of urinary tract stones are cystine
stones.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Flank pain or pain in the side or back. Pain is most often on one side; it is rarely felt on both sides. Pain is often severe. It may get worse over days. You may also feel pain in the pelvis, groin, genitals, or between the upper abdomen and back. 

## Exams and Tests

The condition is most often diagnosed after an episode of kidney stones.
Testing the stones after they are removed shows that they are made of cystine.

Unlike calcium-containing stones, cystine stones do not show up well on plain
x-rays.

Tests that may be done to detect these stones and diagnose the condition
include:

    * 24-hour urine collection
    * Abdominal CT scan, MRI, or ultrasound
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Urinalysis

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms and prevent more stones from
forming. A person with severe symptoms may need to go into the hospital.

Treatment involves drinking plenty of fluids, especially water, to produce
large amounts of urine. You should drink at least 6 to 8 glasses per day. You
should drink water at night as well so that you get up at night at least once
to pass urine.

In some cases, fluids may need to be given through a vein (by IV).

Making the urine more alkaline may help dissolve the cystine crystals. This
may be done with use of potassium citrate or sodium bicarbonate. Eating less
salt can also decrease cystine release and stone formation.

You may need pain relievers to control pain in the kidney or bladder area when
you pass stones. Smaller stones most often pass through the urine on their
own. Larger stones may need extra treatments. Some large stones may need to be
removed with surgery:

    * Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL): Sound waves are passed through the body and are focused on the stones to break them into small, passable fragments. ESWL may not work well for cystine stones because they are very hard as compared with other types of stones.
    * Percutaneous nephrostolithotomy or nephrolithotomy: A small tube is placed through the flank directly into the kidney. A telescope is then passed through the tube to fragment the stone under direct vision.
    * Ureteroscopy: This can be used to treat stones that are not too large. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cystinuria is a chronic, lifelong condition. Stones commonly return. However,
the condition rarely results in kidney failure. It does not affect other
organs.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bladder injury from stone
    * Kidney injury from stone
    * Kidney infection
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Ureteral obstruction
    * Urinary tract infection 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of urinary tract stones.

## Prevention

There are medicines that can be taken so cystine does not form a stone. Ask
your provider about these medicines and their side effects.

Any person with a known history of stones in the urinary tract should drink
plenty of fluids to regularly produce a high amount of urine. This allows
stones and crystals to leave the body before they become large enough to cause
symptoms. Decreasing your intake of salt or sodium will help as well.

## Alternative Names

Stones - cystine; Cystine stones

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - self-care
    * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Cystinuria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17046t.jpg)Cystinuria
    * ![Nephrolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17091t.jpg)Nephrolithiasis

## References

Elder JS. Urinary lithiasis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, et al,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 547.

Guay-Woodford LM. Hereditary nephropathies and developmental abnormalities of
the urinary tract. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 128.

Lipkin ME, Ferrandino MN, Preminger GM. Evaluation and medical management of
urinary lithiasis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 52.

Sakhaee K, Moe OW. Urolithiasis. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal
MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

