Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003583.htm    
                                Description: A urine pH test measures the level of acid in urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine pH test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003583.htm

# Urine pH test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urine pH test measures the level of acid in urine.

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested right away. The health care
provider uses a dipstick made with a color-sensitive pad. The color change on
the dipstick tells the provider the level of acid in your urine.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you to stop taking certain medicines that can affect
the results of the test. These may include:

    * Acetazolamide
    * Ammonium chloride
    * Methenamine mandelate
    * Potassium citrate
    * Sodium bicarbonate
    * Thiazide diuretic 

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

Eat a normal, balanced diet for several days before the test. Note that:

    * A diet high in fruits, vegetables, or non-cheese dairy products can increase your urine pH.
    * A diet high in fish, meat products, or cheese can decrease your urine pH.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test to check for changes in your urine acid
levels. It may be done to see if you:

    * Are at risk of kidney stones. Different types of stones can form depending on how acidic your urine is.
    * Have a metabolic condition, such as renal tubular acidosis.
    * Need to take certain medicines to treat urinary tract infections. Some medicines are more effective when urine is acidic or non-acidic (alkaline).

## Normal Results

The normal values range from pH 4.6 to 8.0.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high urine pH may be due to:

    * Kidneys that do not properly remove acids (kidney tubular acidosis, also known as renal tubular acidosis)
    * Kidney failure
    * Stomach pumping (gastric suction)
    * Urinary tract infection
    * Vomiting

A low urine pH may be due to:

    * Diabetic ketoacidosis
    * Diarrhea
    * Too much acid in the body fluids (metabolic acidosis), such as diabetic ketoacidosis
    * Starvation

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

pH - urine

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![PH urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8613t.jpg)PH urine test
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Bushinsky DA. Kidney stones. In: Melmed S, Auchus RJ, Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ,
Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 14th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 32.

DuBose TD. Disorders of acid-base balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Fogazzi GB, Garigali G. Urinalysis. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M,
Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

