Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000135.htm    
                                Description: A kidney stone is a solid mass made up of tiny crystals. Your health care provider may ask you to take self-care steps to treat kidney stones or prevent them from returning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kidney stones - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000135.htm

# Kidney stones - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A kidney stone is a solid mass made up of tiny crystals. Your health care
provider may ask you to take self-care steps to treat kidney stones or prevent
them from returning.

## What to Expect at Home

You visited your provider or the hospital because you have a kidney stone. You
will need to take self-care steps. Which steps you take depend on the type of
stone you have, but they may include:

    * Drinking extra water and other liquids
    * Eating more of some foods and cutting back on other foods
    * Taking medicines to help prevent stones
    * Taking medicines to help you pass a stone (anti-inflammatory drugs, alpha-blockers)

You may be asked to try to catch your kidney stone. You can do this by
collecting all of your urine and straining it. Your provider will tell you how
to do this.

## What is a Kidney Stone?

A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in a kidney. A stone
can get stuck as it leaves the kidney. It can lodge in one of your two ureters
(the tubes that carry urine from your kidneys to your bladder), the bladder,
or the urethra (the tube that carries urine from your bladder to outside your
body).

Kidney stones may be the size of sand or gravel, as large as a pearl, or even
larger. A stone can block the flow of your urine and cause great pain. A stone
may also break loose and travel through your urinary tract all the way out of
your body without causing too much pain.

There are four major types of kidney stones.

    *  **Calcium** is the most common type of stone. Calcium can combine with other substances, such as oxalate (the most common substance), to form the stone.
    * A **uric acid** stone may form when your urine contains too much acid.
    * A **struvite** stone may form after an infection in your urinary system.
    *  **Cystine** stones are rare. The disease that causes cystine stones runs in families.

## Fluids

Drinking a lot of fluid is important for treating and preventing all types of
kidney stones. Staying hydrated (having enough fluid in your body) will keep
your urine diluted. This makes it harder for stones to form.

    * Water is best.
    * You can also drink ginger ale, lemon-lime sodas, and fruit juices.
    * Drink enough liquids throughout the day to make at least 2 quarts (2 liters) of urine every 24 hours.
    * Drink enough to have light-colored urine. Dark yellow urine is a sign you are not drinking enough.

Limit your coffee, tea, and cola to 1 or 2 cups (250 or 500 milliliters) a
day. Caffeine may cause you to lose fluid too quickly, which can make you
dehydrated.

## Diet and Calcium Stones

Follow these guidelines if you have calcium kidney stones:

    * Drink plenty of fluids, particularly water.
    * Eat less salt. Chinese and Mexican food, tomato juice, regular canned foods, and processed foods are often high in salt. Look for low-salt or unsalted products.
    * Have only 2 or 3 servings a day of foods with a lot of calcium, such as milk, cheese, yogurt, oysters, and tofu.
    * Eat lemons or oranges, or drink fresh lemonade. Citrate in these foods prevents stones from forming.
    * Limit how much protein you eat. Choose lean meats.
    * Eat a low-fat diet.

DO NOT take extra calcium or vitamin D, unless the provider who is treating
your kidney stones recommends it.

    * Watch out for antacids that contain extra calcium. Ask your provider which antacids are safe for you to take.
    * Your body still needs the normal amount of calcium you get from your daily diet. Limiting calcium may actually increase the chance that stones will form. 

Ask your provider before taking vitamin C or fish oil. They may be harmful to
you.

If your provider says you have calcium oxalate stones, you may also need to
limit foods that are high in oxalate. These foods include:

    * Fruits: rhubarb, currants, canned fruit salad, strawberries, and Concord grapes
    * Vegetables: beets, leeks, summer squash, sweet potatoes, spinach, and tomato soup
    * Drinks: tea and instant coffee
    * Other foods: grits, tofu, nuts, and chocolate 

## Diet and Uric Acid Stones

Avoid these foods if you have uric acid stones:

    * Alcohol
    * Anchovies
    * Asparagus
    * Baking or brewer's yeast
    * Cauliflower
    * ConsommÃ©
    * Gravy
    * Herring
    * Legumes (dried beans and peas)
    * Mushrooms
    * Oils
    * Organ meats (liver, kidney, and sweetbreads)
    * Sardines
    * Spinach 

Other suggestions for your diet include:

    * DO NOT eat more than 3 ounces (85 grams) of meat at each meal.
    * Avoid fatty foods such as salad dressings, ice cream, and fried foods.
    * Eat enough carbohydrates.
    * Eat more lemons and oranges, and drink lemonade because the citrate in these foods stops stones from forming.
    * Drink plenty of fluids, particularly water. 

If you are losing weight, lose it slowly. Quick weight loss may cause uric
acid stones to form.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Very bad pain in your back or side that will not go away
    * Blood in your urine
    * Fever and chills
    * Vomiting
    * Urine that smells bad or looks cloudy
    * A burning feeling when you urinate

## Alternative Names

Renal calculi and self-care; Nephrolithiasis and self-care; Stones and kidney
- self-care; Calcium stones and self-care; Oxalate stones and self-care; Uric
acid stones and self-care

## Images

    * ![Kidney pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22937t.jpg)Kidney pain

## References

Bushinsky DA. Nephrolithiasis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

Lipkin ME, Ferrandino MN, Preminger GM. Evaluation and medical management of
urinary lithiasis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 52.

## Read More

    * Bladder stones
    * Cystinuria
    * Gout
    * Kidney stones
    * Lithotripsy
    * Percutaneous kidney procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Hypercalcemia - discharge
    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Kidney Stones

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

