Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000137.htm    
                                Description: You had a procedure to drain urine from your kidney or to get rid of kidney stones. This article gives you advice on what to expect after the procedure and steps you should take to care for yourself.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000137.htm

# Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had a procedure to drain urine from your kidney or to get rid of kidney
stones. This article gives you advice on what to expect after the procedure
and steps you should take to care for yourself.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had percutaneous (through the skin) urinary procedures to help drain urine
from your kidney and get rid of kidney stones.

If you had a percutaneous nephrostomy, the health care provider inserted a
small, flexible catheter (tube) through your skin into your kidney to drain
your urine.

If you also had percutaneous nephrostolithotomy (or nephrolithotomy), the
provider passed a small medical instrument through your skin into your kidney.
This was done to break up or remove kidney stones.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have some pain in your back for the first week after the catheter was
inserted into the kidney. Over-the-counter pain medicine such as Tylenol may
help with the pain. Other pain medicines, such as aspirin or ibuprofen (Advil)
can also help, but your provider may not recommend that you take these
medicines because they can increase your risk of bleeding.

You may have some clear-to-light yellow drainage around the catheter insertion
site for the first 1 to 3 days. This is normal.

A tube that comes from your kidney will pass through the skin on your back.
This helps the urine flow from your kidney into a bag that is attached to your
leg. You may see some blood in the bag at first. This is normal and should
clear over time.

## Caring for Your Tubes and Catheters

Proper care of your nephrostomy catheter is important so you do not get an
infection.

    * During the day, you may use a small urinary bag that is attached to your leg.
    * Use a larger drainage bag at night if recommended by your doctor.
    * Always keep the urinary bag below the level of your kidneys.
    * Empty the bag before it is completely full.
    * Wash your drainage bag once a week using a solution of half white vinegar and half water. Rinse it well with water and allow it to air dry. 

Drink plenty of liquids (2 to 3 liters) every day, unless your provider tells
you not to do so.

Avoid any activity that causes a pulling sensation, pain around the catheter,
or kinking in the catheter. DO NOT swim when you have this catheter.

Your provider will recommend that you take sponge baths so that your dressing
stays dry. You may take a shower if you wrap the dressing with plastic wrap
and replace the dressing if it gets damp. DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub.

## Dressing Changes

Your provider will show you how to place a new dressing. You may need
assistance since the dressing will be on your back.

Change your dressing every 2 to 3 days for the first week. Change it more
often if it gets dirty, wet, or becomes loose. After the first week, change
your dressing once a week, or more often as needed.

You will need some supplies when you change your dressing. These include:
Telfa (the dressing material), Tegaderm (the clear plastic tape), scissors,
split gauze sponges, 4-inch x 4-inch (10 cm x 10 cm) gauze sponges, tape,
connecting tube, hydrogen peroxide, and warm water (plus a clean container to
mix them in), and a drainage bag (if needed).

Always wash your hands well with soap and water before you remove the old
dressing. Wash them again before you put on the new dressing.

Be careful when you take off the old dressing:

    * DO NOT pull on the drainage catheter.
    * If there is a plastic ring keep it against your skin.
    * Check to see that the sutures (stitches) or the device that holds your catheter against your skin is secure. 

When the old dressing is off, gently clean the skin around your catheter. Use
a cotton swab soaked with a solution of half hydrogen peroxide and half warm
water. Pat it dry with a clean cloth.

Look at the skin around your catheter for any increase in redness, tenderness,
or drainage. Call your provider if you notice these changes.

Place a clean dressing the way your provider showed you.

If possible, have family or a friend change the dressing for you. This makes
the process easier.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have any of these symptoms:

    * Pain in your back or side that will not go away or is getting worse
    * Blood in your urine after the first few days
    * Fever and chills
    * Vomiting
    * Urine that smells bad or looks cloudy
    * Worsening redness or pain of the skin around the tube

Also call if:

    * The plastic ring is pulling away from your skin.
    * The catheter has pulled out.
    * The catheter stops draining urine into the bag.
    * The catheter is kinked.
    * Your skin under the tape is irritated.
    * Urine is leaking around the catheter or plastic ring.
    * You have redness, swelling, or pain where the catheter comes out of your skin.
    * There is more drainage than usual on your dressings.
    * The drainage is bloody or contains pus. 

## Alternative Names

Percutaneous nephrostomy - discharge; Percutaneous nephrostolithotomy -
discharge; PCNL - discharge; Nephrolithotomy - discharge; Percutaneous
lithotripsy - discharge; Endoscopic lithotripsy - discharge; Kidney stent -
discharge; Ureteric stent - discharge; Renal calculi - nephrostomy;
Nephrolithiasis - nephrostomy; Stones and kidney - self-care; Calcium stones -
nephrostomy; Oxalate stones - nephrostomy; Uric acid stones - nephrostomy

## References

Bushinsky DA. Nephrolithiasis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

Wolf JS. Percutaneous approaches to the upper urinary tract collecting system.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

## Read More

    * Bladder stones
    * Cystinuria
    * Gout
    * Kidney stones
    * Lithotripsy
    * Percutaneous kidney procedures
    * Stent

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - self-care
    * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Kidney Stones

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

