Link: https://medlineplus.gov/sjogrenssyndrome.html    
                                Description: An autoimmune disease that causes dryness of the mouth, eyes and other places is called Sjorgren&#39;s Syndrome. Learn how to relieve the symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Sjogren's Syndrome

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/sjogrenssyndrome.html

#  Sjogren's Syndrome

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Sjogren's syndrome is an autoimmune disease. This means that your immune
system attacks parts of your own body by mistake. In Sjogren's syndrome, it
attacks the glands that make tears and saliva. This causes a dry mouth and dry
eyes. You may have dryness in other places that need moisture, such as your
nose, throat, and skin. Sjogren's can also affect other parts of the body,
including your joints, lungs, kidneys, blood vessels, digestive organs, and
nerves.

Most people with Sjogren's syndrome are women. It usually starts after age 40.
It is sometimes linked to other diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and
lupus.

To make a diagnosis, doctors may use a medical history, physical exam, certain
eye and mouth tests, blood tests, and biopsies.

Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms. It can differ for each person; it
depends on what parts of the body are affected. It may include artificial
tears for dye eyes and sucking on sugar-free candy or drinking water often for
a dry mouth. Medicines may help with severe symptoms.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Dry Eyes and Mouth? You May Have SjÃ¶gren's Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Sjogren's Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Sjogren's Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * SjÃ¶gren's Syndrome (American College of Rheumatology)
    * What Is SjÃ¶gren's Syndrome? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Rheumatoid Factor (RF) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Simple Solutions for Dry Eye (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF

## Living With

    * Fatigue Fighters in Sjogren's Syndrome (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF
    * Sleep Tips for Sjogren's Patients (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF
    * Tips for Chronic Pain (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Sjogren's Syndrome: Can It Cause Recurrent UTIs? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Sun and Sjogren's Syndrome (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF
    * Surgery, Hospitals, and Medications (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF
    * Tips for Airline Travelers with Sjogren's Syndrome (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF
    * What You Need to Know About Sjogren's Syndrome (Lupus Foundation of America)

## Specifics

    * Dry Eye ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Eye Institute)
    * Dry Mouth (Xerostomia) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research) Also in Spanish
    * Dry Mouth: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Dry Skin (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation) \- PDF
    * What Is Dry Eye? ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: SjÃ¶gren syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Sjogren's Syndrome: A Place to Begin ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation)

## Statistics and Research

    * New Genetic Susceptibility Factors for SjÃ¶gren's Syndrome Revealed ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sjogren's Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Fluctuations of antimitochondrial antibodies and anti-gp210 antibody in a patient with...
    * Article: Salivary gland ultrasound integrated with 2016 ACR/EULAR classification criteria improves the...
    * Article: Disease activity and damage in patients with primary Sjogren's syndrome: Prognostic...
    * Sjogren's Syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation

## Patient Handouts

    * Rheumatoid factor (RF) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sjogren syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![SÃ­ndrome de SjÃ¶gren](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SjogrensSyndrome.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Antithyroid microsomal antibody
    * Rheumatoid factor (RF)
    * Salivary gland biopsy
    * Schirmer test
    * Sjogren syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Arthritis
    * Dry Mouth
    * Tears

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Sjogren's Syndrome is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 7 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

