Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000186.htm    
                                Description: A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in your kidney. The kidney stone may be stuck in your ureter (the tube that carries urine from your kidneys to your bladder). It also may be stuck    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000186.htm

# Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in your kidney. The
kidney stone may be stuck in your ureter (the tube that carries urine from
your kidneys to your bladder). It also may be stuck in your bladder or urethra
(the tube that carries urine from your bladder to outside your body). A stone
can block the flow of your urine and cause great pain. In most cases, a stone
that is in the kidney and not blocking the flow of urine does not cause pain.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider.

## Questions

If I had a kidney stone removed, can I get another one?

How much water and liquids should I drink every day? How do I know if I'm
drinking enough? Is it OK to drink coffee, tea, or soft drinks?

What foods can I eat? What foods should I avoid?

    * What types of protein can I eat?
    * Can I have salt and other spices?
    * Are fried foods or fatty foods OK?
    * What vegetables and fruits should I eat?
    * How much milk, eggs, cheese, and other dairy foods can I have? 

Is it OK to take extra vitamins or minerals? How about herbal remedies?

What are the signs that I may have an infection?

Could I have a kidney stone and not have any symptoms?

Can I take medicines to keep kidney stones from coming back?

What surgeries can be done to treat my kidney stones?

What tests can be done to find out why I get kidney stones?

When should I call the provider?

## Alternative Names

Nephrolithiasis - what to ask your doctor; Renal calculi - what to ask your
doctor; What to ask your doctor about kidney stones

## References

Bushinsky DA. Nephrolithiasis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

Leavitt DA, de la Rosette JJMCH, Hoenig DM. Strategies for nonmedical
management of upper urinary tract calculi. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin
AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 53.

## Read More

    * Cystinuria
    * Gout
    * Kidney stones
    * Lithotripsy
    * Nephrocalcinosis
    * Percutaneous kidney procedures

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
    * Kidney stones - self-care
    * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Kidney Stones

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

