Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003616.htm    
                                Description: The uric acid urine test measures the level of uric acid in urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uric acid urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003616.htm

# Uric acid urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The uric acid urine test measures the level of uric acid in urine.

Uric acid level can also be checked using a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is often needed. You will need to collect your urine
over 24 hours. Your health care provider will tell you how to do this. Follow
instructions exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may ask you to temporarily stop taking medicines that may affect
the test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the medicines you
take. These include:

    * Aspirin or aspirin-containing medicines
    * Gout medicines
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen)
    * Water pills (diuretics) 

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

Be aware that alcoholic drinks, vitamin C, and x-ray dye can also affect test
results.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to help determine the cause of a high uric acid level in
the blood. It may also be done to monitor people with gout, and to choose the
best medicine to lower the uric acid level in the blood.

Uric acid is a chemical created when the body breaks down substances called
purines. Most uric acid dissolves in blood and travels to the kidneys, where
it passes out in urine. If your body produces too much uric acid or does not
remove enough of it, you may get sick. A high level of uric acid in the body
is called hyperuricemia and it can lead to gout or kidney damage.

This test may also be done to check whether a high uric acid level in the
urine is causing kidney stones.

## Normal Results

Normal values range from 250 to 750 mg/24 hours (1.48 to 4.43 mmol/24 hours).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high uric acid level in the urine may be due to:

    * Body not being able to process purine (Lesch-Nyhan syndrome)
    * Certain cancers that have spread (metastasized)
    * Disease that results in breakdown of muscle fibers (rhabdomyolysis)
    * Disorders that affect the bone marrow (myeloproliferative disorder)
    * Disorder of the kidney tubes in which certain substances normally absorbed into the bloodstream by the kidneys are released into the urine instead (Fanconi syndrome)
    * Gout
    * High-purine diet 

A low uric acid level in the urine may be due to:

    * Chronic kidney disease that impairs the kidneys' ability to get rid of uric acid, which can lead to gout or kidney damage
    * Kidneys that are not able to filter fluids and waste normally (chronic glomerulonephritis)
    * Lead poisoning
    * Long-term (chronic) alcohol use 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Images

    * ![Uric acid test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10007t.jpg)Uric acid test
    * ![Uric acid crystals](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1222t.jpg)Uric acid crystals

## References

Burns CM, Wortmann RL. Clinical features and treatment of gout. In: Firestein
GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's
Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 95.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gout](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gout_thumb.jpg)Gout _Read more_

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

