Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000516.htm    
                                Description: Renal cell carcinoma is a type of kidney cancer that starts in the lining of very small tubes (tubules) in the kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal cell carcinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000516.htm

# Renal cell carcinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Renal cell carcinoma is a type of kidney cancer that starts in the lining of
very small tubes (tubules) in the kidney.

## Causes

Renal cell carcinoma is the most common type of kidney cancer in adults. It
occurs most often in men 50 to 70 years old.

The exact cause is unknown.

The following may increase your risk of kidney cancer:

    * Smoking
    * Obesity
    * Dialysis treatment
    * Family history of the disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Horseshoe kidney
    * Long-term use of certain medicines, such as pain pills or water pills (diuretics)
    * Polycystic kidney disease
    * Von Hippel-Lindau disease (a hereditary disease that affects blood vessels in the brain, eyes, and other body parts)
    * Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome (a genetic disease associated with benign skin tumors and lung cysts)

## Symptoms

Symptoms of this cancer may include any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain and swelling
    * Back pain
    * Blood in the urine
    * Swelling of the veins around a testicle (varicocele)
    * Flank pain
    * Weight loss
    * Fever
    * Liver dysfunction
    * Elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Excessive hair growth in females
    * Pale skin
    * Vision problems

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal a mass
or swelling of the abdomen

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Blood chemistry
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Liver function tests
    * Renal arteriography
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen and kidney
    * Urinalysis

The following tests may be done to see if the cancer has spread:

    * Abdominal MRI
    * Biopsy
    * Bone scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Chest CT scan
    * PET scan

## Treatment

Surgery to remove all or part of the kidney (nephrectomy) is usually
recommended. This may include removing the bladder, surrounding tissues, or
lymph nodes. A cure is unlikely unless all of the cancer is removed with
surgery. But even if some cancer is left behind, there is still benefit from
surgery.

Chemotherapy is generally not effective for treating kidney cancer in adults.
The immune system medicines interleukin-2 (IL-2) or nivolumab may help some
people. Medicines that target the development of blood vessels that feed the
tumor may be used to treat kidney cancer. Your provider can tell you more.

Radiation therapy is usually done when the cancer spreads to the bone or
brain.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group whose members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sometimes, both kidneys are involved. The cancer spreads easily, most often to
the lungs and other organs. In about one third of people, the cancer has
already spread (metastasized) at the time of diagnosis.

How well someone with kidney cancer does depends on how much the cancer has
spread and how well treatment works. The survival rate is highest if the tumor
is in the early stages and has not spread outside the kidney. If it has spread
to the lymph nodes or to other organs, the survival rate is much lower.

## Possible Complications

Complications of kidney cancer include:

    * High blood pressure (hypertension)
    * Too much calcium in the blood
    * High red blood cell count
    * Liver and spleen problems
    * Spread of the cancer 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider any time you see blood in the urine. Also call if you have
any other symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Stop smoking. Follow your provider's recommendations in the treatment of
kidney disorders, especially those that may require dialysis.

## Alternative Names

Renal cancer; Kidney cancer; Hypernephroma; Adenocarcinoma of renal cells;
Cancer - kidney

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney tumor - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1168t.jpg)Kidney tumor - CT scan
    * ![Kidney metastases - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1174t.jpg)Kidney metastases - CT scan
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Babaian KN, Delacroix SE, Wood CG, Jonasch E. Kidney cancer. In: Skorecki K,
Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

National Cancer Institute website. Renal cell cancer treatment (PDQ) â
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/kidney/hp/kidney-treatment-
pdq. Updated February 23, 2018. Accessed April 9, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: kidney cancer. Version 3.2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/kidney.pdf. Updated February 6,
2018. Accessed April 9, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

