Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003005.htm    
                                Description: A kidney transplant is surgery to place a healthy kidney into a person with kidney failure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kidney transplant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003005.htm

# Kidney transplant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A kidney transplant is surgery to place a healthy kidney into a person with
kidney failure.

## Description

Kidney transplants are one of the most common transplant operations in the
United States.

One donated kidney is needed to replace the work previously done by your
kidneys.

The donated kidney may be from:

    * Living related donor - related to the person receiving the transplant, such as a parent, sibling, or child
    * Living unrelated donor - such as a friend or spouse
    * Deceased donor - a person who has recently died and who has no known chronic kidney disease 

The healthy kidney is transported in a special solution that preserves the
organ for up to 48 hours. This gives the health care providers time to perform
tests to ensure that the donor's and recipient's blood and tissue match.

PROCEDURE FOR A LIVING KIDNEY DONOR

If you are donating a kidney, you will be placed under general anesthesia
before surgery. This means you will be asleep and pain-free. Surgeons today
can often use small surgical cuts with laparoscopic techniques to remove the
kidney.

PROCEDURE FOR THE PERSON RECEIVING THE KIDNEY (RECIPIENT)

People receiving a kidney transplant are given general anesthesia before
surgery.

    * The surgeon makes a cut in the lower belly area.
    * Your surgeon places the new kidney inside your lower belly. The artery and vein of the new kidney are connected to the artery and vein in your pelvis. Your blood flows through the new kidney, which makes urine just like your own kidneys did when they were healthy. The tube that carries urine (ureter) is then attached to your bladder.
    * Your own kidneys are left in place unless they are causing a medical problem. The wound is then closed. 

Kidney transplant surgery takes about 3 hours. People with diabetes may also
have a pancreas transplant done at the same time. This can add another 3 hours
to the surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may need a kidney transplant if you have end-stage kidney disease. The
most common cause of end-stage kidney disease in the U.S. is diabetes.
However, there are many other causes.

A kidney transplant may NOT be done if you have:

    * Certain infections, such as TB or bone infections
    * Problems taking medicines several times each day for the rest of your life
    * Heart, lung, or liver disease
    * Other life-threatening diseases
    * Recent history of cancer
    * Infections, such as hepatitis
    * Current behaviors such as smoking, alcohol or drug abuse, or other risky lifestyle habits 

## Risks

Specific risks related to this procedure include:

    * Blood clots (deep venous thrombosis)
    * Heart attack or stroke
    * Wound infections
    * Side effects from medicines used to prevent transplant rejection
    * Loss of transplanted kidney

## Before the Procedure

You will be evaluated by a team at the transplant center. They will want to
make sure that you are a good candidate for a kidney transplant. You will have
several visits over a period of several weeks or months. You will need to have
blood drawn and x-rays taken.

Tests done before the procedure include:

    * Tissue and blood typing to help make sure your body will not reject the donated kidney
    * Blood tests or skin tests to check for infections
    * Heart tests such as an EKG, echocardiogram, or cardiac catheterization
    * Tests to look for early cancer

You will also want to consider one or more transplant centers to determine
which is best for you.

    * Ask the center how many transplants they perform every year and what their survival rates are. Compare these numbers to those of other transplant centers.
    * Ask about support groups they have available and what type of travel and housing arrangements they offer.

If the transplant team believes you are a good candidate for a kidney
transplant, you will be put on a national waiting list.

Your place on a waiting list is based on a number of factors. Key factors
include the type of kidney problems you have, how severe your heart disease
is, and the likelihood that a transplant will be successful.

For adults, the amount of time you spend on a waiting list is not the most
important or main factor in how soon you get a kidney. Most people waiting for
a kidney transplant are on dialysis. While you are waiting for a kidney:

    * Follow any diet your transplant team recommends.
    * Do not drink alcohol.
    * Do not smoke.
    * Keep your weight in the range that has been recommended. Follow any recommended exercise program.
    * Take all medicines as they have been prescribed for you. Report any changes in your medicines and any new or worsening medical problems to the transplant team.
    * Go to all regular visits with your regular doctor and transplant team. Make sure the transplant team has the correct phone numbers so they can contact you right away if a kidney becomes available. Always make sure that you can be contacted quickly and easily.
    * Have everything ready in advance to go to the hospital.

## After the Procedure

If you have received a donated kidney, you will need to stay in the hospital
for about 3 to 7 days. You will need close follow-up by a doctor and regular
blood tests for 1 to 2 months.

The recovery period is about 6 months. Often, your transplant team will ask
you to stay close to the hospital for the first 3 months. You will need to
have regular check-ups with blood tests and x-rays for many years.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Almost everyone feels that they have a better quality of life after the
transplant. Those who receive a kidney from a living related donor do better
than those who receive a kidney from a donor who has died. If you donate a
kidney, you can most often live safely without complications with your one
remaining kidney.

People who receive a transplanted kidney may reject the new organ. This means
that their immune system sees the new kidney as a foreign substance and tries
to destroy it.

In order to avoid rejection, almost all kidney transplant recipients must take
medicines that suppress their immune response for the rest of their life. This
is called immunosuppressive therapy. Although the treatment helps prevent
organ rejection, it also puts patients at a higher risk for infection and
cancer. If you take this medicine, you need to be screened for cancer. The
medicines may also cause high blood pressure and high cholesterol and increase
the risk for diabetes.

A successful kidney transplant requires close follow-up with yourÂ doctor and
you must always take your medicine as directed.

## Alternative Names

Renal transplant; Transplant - kidney

## Patient Instructions

    * Kidney removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Kidneys](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8819t.jpg)Kidneys
    * ![Kidney transplant - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10246t.jpg)Kidney transplant - series

## References

Barlow AD, Nicholson ML. Kidney transplantation surgery. In: Feehally J,
Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 103.

Becker Y, Witkowski P. Kidney and pancreas transplantation. In: Townsend CM
Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

Gritsch HA, Blumberg JM. Renal transplantation. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 47.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trasplante de
riÃ±Ã³n](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Transplantation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

