Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000465.htm    
                                Description: Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease (ADTKD) is a group of inherited conditions that affect the tubules of the kidneys, causing the kidneys to gradually lose their ability to work.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000465.htm

# Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease (ADTKD) is a group of
inherited conditions that affect the tubules of the kidneys, causing the
kidneys to gradually lose their ability to work.

## Causes

ADTKD is caused by mutations in certain genes. These gene problems are passed
down through families (inherited) in an autosomal dominant pattern. This means
the abnormal gene is needed from only one parent in order to inherit the
disease. Often, many family members have the disease.

With all forms of ADTKD, as the disease progresses, the kidney tubules are
damaged. These are the structures in the kidneys that allow most water in the
blood to be filtered and returned to the blood.

Their abnormal genes that cause the different forms of ADTKD are:

    *  _UMOD_ gene -- causes ADTKD- _UMOD_ , or uromodulin kidney disease
    *  _MUC1_ gene -- causes ADTKD- _MUC1_ , or mucin-1 kidney disease
    *  _REN_ gene -- causes ADTKD- _REN_ , or familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy type 2 (FJHN2)
    *  _HNF1B_ gene -- causes ADTKD- _HNF1B_ , or maturity-onset diabetes mellitus of the young type 5 (MODY5) 

When the cause of ADTKD is not known or a genetic test has not been done, it
is called ADTKD-NOS.

## Symptoms

Early in the disease, depending on the form of ADTKD, symptoms may include:

    * Excessive urination (polyuria)
    * Gout
    * Salt cravings
    * Urination at night (nocturia)
    * Weakness 

As the disease worsens, symptoms of kidney failure may develop, which include:

    * Easy bruising or bleeding
    * Fatigue, weakness
    * Frequent hiccups
    * Headache
    * Increased skin color (skin may appear yellow or brown)
    * Itching
    * Malaise (general ill feeling)
    * Muscle twitching or cramps
    * Nausea
    * Pale skin
    * Reduced sensation in the hands, feet, or other areas
    * Vomiting blood or blood in the stool
    * Weight loss
    * Seizures
    * Confusion, decreased alertness, coma 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. You'll
likely be asked if other family members have ADTKD or kidney disease.

Tests that may be done include:

    * 24-hour urine volume and electrolytes
    * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Creatinine blood test
    * Creatinine clearance \-- blood and urine
    * Uric acid blood test
    * Urine specific gravity (will be low) 

The following tests can help diagnose this condition:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Kidney biopsy
    * Kidney ultrasound 

## Treatment

There is no cure for ADTKD. At first, treatment focuses on controlling
symptoms, reducing complications, and slowing the progression of the disease.
Because so much water and salt are lost, you will need to follow instructions
on drinking plenty of fluids and taking salt supplements to avoid dehydration.

As the disease progresses, kidney failure develops. Treatment may involve
taking medicines and diet changes, limiting foods containing phosphorus and
potassium. You may need dialysis and a kidney transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The age at which people with ADTKD reach end-stage kidney disease varies,
depending on the form of the disease. It can be as young as in the teens or in
older adulthood. Lifelong treatment may control the symptoms of chronic kidney
disease.

## Possible Complications

ADTKD may lead to the following health problems:

    * Anemia
    * Bone weakening and fractures
    * Cardiac tamponade
    * Changes in glucose metabolism
    * Congestive heart failure
    * End-stage kidney disease
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding, ulcers
    * Hemorrhage (excessive bleeding)
    * High blood pressure
    * Hyponatremia (low blood sodium level)
    * Hyperkalemia (too much potassium in the blood), especially with end-stage kidney disease
    * Hypokalemia (too little potassium in the blood)
    * Infertility
    * Menstrual problems
    * Miscarriage
    * Pericarditis
    * Peripheral neuropathy
    * Platelet dysfunction with easy bruising
    * Skin color changes

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have any symptoms of urinary
or kidney problems.Â

## Prevention

Medullary cystic kidney disease is an inherited disorder. It may not be
preventable.

## Alternative Names

ADTKD; Medullary cystic kidney disease; Renin associated kidney disease;
Familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy; Uromodulin associated kidney
disease

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney cyst with gallstones - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1173t.jpg)Kidney cyst with gallstones - CT scan
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Bleyer AJ, Kidd K, Å½ivnÃ¡ M, Kmoch S. Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial
kidney disease. _Adv Chronic Kidney Dis_. 2017;24(2):86-93. PMID: 28284384
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28284384.

Eckardt KU, Alper SL, Antignac C, et al. Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial
kidney disease: diagnosis, classification, and management--a KDIGO consensus
report. _Kidney Int_. 2015;88(4):676-683. PMID: 25738250
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25738250.

Guay-Woodford LM. Other cystic kidney diseases. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCyst_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cysts _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

