Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000502.htm    
                                Description: Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a kidney disorder passed down through families. In this disease, many cysts form in the kidneys, causing them to become enlarged.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polycystic kidney disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000502.htm

# Polycystic kidney disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a kidney disorder passed down through
families. In this disease, many cysts form in the kidneys, causing them to
become enlarged.

## Causes

PKD is passed down through families (inherited). The two inherited forms of
PKD areÂ autosomal dominantÂ and autosomal recessive.

People with PKD have many clusters of cysts in the kidneys. What exactly
triggers the cysts to form is unknown.Â

PKD is associated with the following conditions:

    * Aortic aneurysms
    * Brain aneurysms
    * Cysts in the liver, pancreas, and testes
    * Diverticula of the colon

As many as half of people with PKD have cysts in the liver.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of PKD may include any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain or tenderness
    * Blood in the urine
    * Excessive urination at night
    * Flank pain on one or both sides
    * Drowsiness
    * Joint pain
    * Nail abnormalities

## Exams and Tests

An examination may show:

    * Abdominal tenderness over the liver
    * Enlarged liver
    * Heart murmurs or other signs of aortic insufficiency or mitral insufficiency
    * High blood pressure
    * Growths in the kidneys or abdomen

Tests that may be done include:

    * Cerebral angiography
    * Complete blood count (CBC) to check for anemia
    * Liver tests (blood)
    * Urinalysis

People with a personal or family history of PKD who have headaches should be
tested to determine if cerebral aneurysms are the cause.

PKD and cysts on the liver or other organs may be foundÂ using the following
tests:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal MRI scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)

If several members of your family have PKD, genetic tests can be done to
determine whether you carry the PKD gene.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control symptoms and prevent complications.
Treatment may include:

    * Blood pressure medicines
    * Diuretics (water pills)
    * Low-salt diet

Any urinary tract infection should be treated quickly with antibiotics.

Cysts that are painful, infected, bleeding, or causing a blockage may need to
be drained. There are usually too many cysts to make it practical to remove
each cyst.

Surgery to remove 1 or both kidneys may be needed. Treatments for end-stage
kidney disease may include dialysis or a kidney transplant.

## Support Groups

You can often ease the stress of an illness by joining a support group where
members share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease gets worse slowly. Eventually, it may lead to end-stage kidney
failure. It is also associated with liver disease, including infection of
liver cysts.

Treatment may relieve symptoms for many years.

People with PKD who don't have other diseases may be good candidates for a
kidney transplant.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from PKD include:

    * Anemia
    * Bleeding or rupture of cysts
    * Long-term (chronic) kidney disease
    * End-stage kidney disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Infection of liver cysts
    * Kidney stones
    * Liver failure (mild to severe)
    * Repeated urinary tract infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have symptoms of PKD
    * You have a family history of PKD or related disorders and you are planning to have children (you may want to have genetic counseling)

## Prevention

Currently, no treatment can prevent the cysts from forming or enlarging.

## Alternative Names

Cysts - kidneys; Kidney - polycystic; Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney
disease; ADPKD

## Images

    * ![Kidney and liver cysts - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1159t.jpg)Kidney and liver cysts - CT scan
    * ![Liver and spleen cysts - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1181t.jpg)Liver and spleen cysts - CT scan

## References

Arnaout MA. Cystic kidney diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 118.

Torres VE, Harris PC. Cystic diseases of the kidney. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM,
Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 45.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCyst_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cysts _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

