Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000849.htm    
                                Description: A keloid is a growth of extra scar tissue. It occurs where the skin has healed after an injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Keloids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000849.htm

# Keloids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A keloid is a growth of extra scar tissue. It occurs where the skin has healed
after an injury.

## Causes

Keloids can form after skin injuries from:

    * Acne
    * Burns
    * Chickenpox
    * Ear or body piercing
    * Minor scratches
    * Cuts from surgery or trauma
    * Vaccination sites 

Keloids are most common in people younger than 30. Black people, Asians, and
Hispanics are more prone to developing keloids. Keloids often run in families.
Sometimes, a person may not recall what injury caused a keloid to form.

## Symptoms

A keloid may be:

    * Flesh-colored, red, or pink
    * Located over the site of a wound or injury
    * Lumpy or ridged
    * Tender and itchy
    * Irritated from friction such as rubbing on clothing 

A keloid will tan darker than the skin around it if exposed to sun during the
first year after it forms. The darker color may not go away.

## Exams and Tests

Your doctor will look at your skin to see if you have a keloid.Â A skin biopsy
may be done to rule out other types of skin growths (tumors).

## Treatment

Keloids often do not need treatment. If the keloid bothers you, discuss your
concern with a skin doctor (dermatologist). The doctor may recommend these
treatments to reduce the size of the keloid:

    * Corticosteroid injections
    * Freezing (cryotherapy)
    * Laser treatments
    * Radiation
    * Surgical removal
    * Silicone gel or patches 

These treatments, especially surgery, sometimes cause the keloid scar to
become larger.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Keloids usually are not harmful to your health, but they may affect how you
look.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You develop keloids and want to have them removed or reduced
    * You develop new symptoms

## Prevention

When you are in the sun:

    * Cover a keloid that is forming with a patch or adhesive bandage.
    * Use sunblock. 

Continue to follow these steps for at least 6 months after injury or surgery
for an adults. Children may need up to 18 months of prevention.

Imiquimod cream may help prevent keloids from forming after surgery. The cream
may also prevent keloids from returning after they are removed.

## Alternative Names

Keloid scar; Scar - keloid

## Images

    * ![Keloid above the ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2519t.jpg)Keloid above the ear
    * ![Keloid, pigmented](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2521t.jpg)Keloid, pigmented
    * ![Keloid, on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2903t.jpg)Keloid - on the foot

## References

Habif TP. Benign skin tumors. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
20.

Patterson JW. Disorders of collagen. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 11.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Scars](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scars_thumb.jpg)Scars _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

