Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002991.htm    
                                Description: Scar revision is surgery to improve or reduce the appearance of scars. It also restores function, and corrects skin changes (disfigurement) caused by an injury, wound, poor healing, or previous surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scar revision

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002991.htm

# Scar revision

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scar revision is surgery to improve or reduce the appearance of scars. It also
restores function, and corrects skin changes (disfigurement) caused by an
injury, wound, poor healing, or previous surgery.

## Description

Scar tissue forms as skin heals after an injury (such as an accident) or
surgery.

How much scarring there is depends on:

    * Size, depth, and location of the wound
    * Your age
    * Skin characteristics, such as color (pigmentation) 

Depending on the extent of the surgery, scar revision can be done while you
are awake (local anesthesia), sleeping (sedated), or deep asleep and pain-free
(general anesthesia).

When to have scar revision done is not always clear. Scars shrink and become
less noticeable as they age. You may be able to wait to have surgery until the
scar lightens in color. This can be several months or even a year after the
wound has healed. For some scars, it is best to have revision surgery 60 to 90
days after the scar matures. Each scar is different.

There are several ways to improve the appearance of scars:

    * The scar may be removed completely and the new wound closed very carefully.
    * Scar massage and pressure therapy, such as silicone strips.
    * Dermabrasion involves removing the upper layers of the skin with a special wire brush called a burr or fraise. New skin grows over this area. Dermabrasion can be used to soften the surface of the skin or reduce irregularities.
    * A laser may be used to soften the surface of the scar, and stimulate new collagen growth within the scar.
    * Very large injuries (such as burns) can cause loss of a large area of skin and may form hypertrophic scars. These types of scars can restrict movement of muscles, joints and tendons (contracture). Surgery removes extra scar tissue. It may involve a series of small cuts (incisions) on both sides of the scar site, which create V-shaped skin flaps (Z-plasty). The result is a thin, less noticeable scar, because a Z-plasty may re-orient the scar so that it more closely follows the natural skin folds and releases tightness in the scar, but lengthens the scar during the process.
    * Skin grafting involves taking a thin layer of skin from another part of the body and placing it over the injured area. Skin flap surgery involves moving an entire, full thickness of skin, fat, nerves, blood vessels, and muscle from a healthy part of the body to the injured site. These techniques are used when a large amount of skin has been lost in the original injury, when a thin scar will not heal, and when the main concern is improved function rather than improved appearance.
    * Tissue expansion is used for breast reconstruction. It is also used for skin that has been damaged due to birth defects and injuries. A silicone balloon is inserted beneath the skin and gradually filled with salt water. This stretches the skin, which grows over time. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Problems that may indicate a need for scar revision include:

    * A keloid, which is an abnormal scar that is thicker and of a different color and texture than the rest of the skin. Keloids extend beyond the edge of the wound and are likely to come back. They often create a thick, puckered effect that looks like a tumor. Keloids are removed at the place where they meet normal tissue.
    * A scar that is at an angle to the normal tension lines of the skin.
    * A scar that is thickened.
    * A scar that causes distortion of other features or causes problems with normal movement or function.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks for scar revision surgery are:

    * Scar recurrence
    * Keloid formation (or recurrence)
    * Separation (dehiscence) of the wound 

Exposing the scar to too much sun may cause it to darken, which could
interfere with future revision.

## After the Procedure

For keloid revision, a pressure or elastic dressing may be placed over the
area after the operation to prevent the keloid from coming back.

For other types of scar revision, a light dressing is applied. Stitches are
usually removed after 3 to 4 days for the facial area, and after 5 to 7 days
for incisions on other parts of the body.

When you return to normal activities and work depends on the type, degree, and
location of the surgery. Most people can resume normal activities soon after
surgery. Your doctor will likely tell you to avoid activities that stretch and
may widen the new scar.

If you have long-term stiffening of the joint, you may need physical therapy
after surgery.

Apply sunscreen to keep sunlight from permanently tanning the healing scar.

## Alternative Names

Keloid revision; Hypertrophic scar revision; Scar repair; Z-plasty

## Images

    * ![Keloid above the ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2519t.jpg)Keloid above the ear
    * ![Keloid, pigmented](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2521t.jpg)Keloid, pigmented
    * ![Keloid, on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2903t.jpg)Keloid - on the foot
    * ![Keloid scar](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9865t.jpg)Keloid scar
    * ![Scar revision - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10296t.jpg)Scar revision - series

## References

Hu MS, Zielins ER, Longaker MT, Lorenz HP. Scar prevention, treatment, and
revision. In: Gurtner GC, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery, Volume 1:
Principles_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

Leitenberger JJ, Isenhath SN, Swanson NA, Lee KK. Scar revision. In: Robinson
JK, Hanke CW, Siegel DM, Fratila A, Bhatia AC, Rohrer TE, eds. _Surgery of the
Skin: Procedural Dermatology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap
21.

## Review Date 5/15/2019

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology â Head and Neck
Surgery, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Scars](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scars_thumb.jpg)Scars _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

