Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000348.htm    
                                Description: Obesity is a medical condition in which a high amount of body fat increases the chance of developing medical problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Health risks of obesity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000348.htm

# Health risks of obesity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obesity is a medical condition in which a high amount of body fat increases
the chance of developing medical problems.

People with obesity have a higher chance of developing these health problems:

    * High blood glucose (sugar) or diabetes.
    * High blood pressure (hypertension).
    * High blood cholesterol and triglycerides (dyslipidemia, or high blood fats).
    * Heart attacks due to coronary heart disease, heart failure, and stroke.
    * Bone and joint problems, more weight puts pressure on the bones and joints. This can lead to osteoarthritis, a disease that causes joint pain and stiffness.
    * Stopping breathing during sleep (sleep apnea). This can cause daytime fatigue or sleepiness, poor attention, and problems at work.
    * Gallstones and liver problems.
    * Some cancers. 

Three things can be used to determine if a person's body fat gives them a
higher chance of developing obesity-related diseases:

    * Body mass index (BMI)
    * Waist size
    * Other risk factors the person has (a risk factor is anything that increases your chance of getting a disease) 
![Obesity and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19473.jpg)

## Body Mass Index

Experts often rely on BMI to determine if a person is overweight. The BMI
estimates your level of body fat based on your height and weight.

Starting at 25.0, the higher your BMI, the greater is your risk of developing
obesity-related health problems. These ranges of BMI are used to describe
levels of risk:

    * Overweight (not obese), if BMI is 25.0 to 29.9
    * Class 1 (low-risk) obesity, if BMI is 30.0 to 34.9
    * Class 2 (moderate-risk) obesity, if BMI is 35.0 to 39.9
    * Class 3 (high-risk) obesity, if BMI is equal to or greater than 40.0 

There are many websites with calculators that give your BMI when you enter
your weight and height.

## Waist Size

Women with a waist size greater than 35 inches (89 centimeters) and men with a
waist size greater than 40 inches (102 centimeters) have an increased risk for
heart disease and type 2 diabetes. People with "apple-shaped" bodies (waist is
bigger than the hips) also have an increased risk for these conditions.

## Risk Factors

Having a risk factor doesn't mean that you will get the disease. But it does
increase the chance that you will. Some risk factors, like age, race, or
family history can't be changed.

The more risk factors you have, the more likely it is that you will develop
the disease or health problem.

Your risk of developing health problems such as heart disease, stroke, and
kidney problems increases if you're obese and have these risk factors:

    * High blood pressure (hypertension)
    * High blood cholesterol or triglycerides
    * High blood glucose (sugar), a sign of type 2 diabetes 

These other risk factors for heart disease and stroke are not caused by
obesity:

    * Having a family member under the age of 50 with heart disease
    * Being physically inactive or having a sedentary lifestyle
    * Smoking or using tobacco products of any kind 

## Summing it up

You can control many of these risk factors by changing your lifestyle. If you
have obesity, your health care provider can help you begin a weight-loss
program. A starting goal of losing 5% to 10% of your current weight will
significantly reduce your risk of developing obesity-related diseases.

## Images

    * ![Obesity and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19473t.jpg)Obesity and health

## References

Cowley MA, Brown WA, Considine RV. Obesity: the problem and its management.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Jensen MD. Obesity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 220.

Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for and management of
obesity in adults: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2012;157(5):373-378. PMID: 22733087
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22733087.

## Review Date 5/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Obesity

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

