Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007297.htm    
                                Description: Obesity means having too much body fat. It is not the same as being overweight, which means weighing too much. A person may be overweight from extra muscle or water, as well as from having too much fat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Obesity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007297.htm

# Obesity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obesity means having too much body fat. It is not the same as being
overweight, which means weighing too much. A person may be overweight from
extra muscle or water, as well as from having too much fat.

Both terms mean that a person's weight is higher than what is thought to be
healthy for his or her height.

## Causes

Taking in more calories than your body burns can lead to obesity. This is
because the body stores unused calories as fat. Obesity can be caused by:

    * Eating more food than your body can use
    * Drinking too much alcohol
    * Not getting enough exercise 

Many obese people who lose large amounts of weight and gain it back think it
is their fault. They blame themselves for not having the willpower to keep the
weight off. Many people regain more weight than they lost.

Today, we know that biology is a big reason why some people cannot keep the
weight off. Some people who live in the same place and eat the same foods
become obese, while others do not. Our bodies have a complex system to keep
our weight at a healthy level. In some people, this system does not work
normally.

The way we eat when we are children can affect the way we eat as adults.

The way we eat over many years becomes a habit. It affects what we eat, when
we eat, and how much we eat.

We may feel that we are surrounded by things that make it easy to overeat and
hard to stay active.

    * Many people feel they do not have time to plan and make healthy meals.
    * More people today work desk jobs compared to more active jobs in the past.
    * People with little free time may have less time to exercise. 

The term eating disorder means a group of medical conditions that have an
unhealthy focus on eating, dieting, losing or gaining weight, and body image.
A person may be obese, follow an unhealthy diet, and have an eating disorder
all at the same time.

Sometimes, medical problems or treatments cause weight gain, including:

    * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)
    * Medicines such as birth control pills, antidepressants, and antipsychotics 

Other things that can cause weight gain are:

    * Quitting smoking -- Many people who quit smoking gain 4 to 10 pounds (lb) or 2 to 5 kilograms (kg) in the first 6 months after quitting.
    * Stress, anxiety, feeling sad, or not sleeping well.
    * Menopause \-- Women may gain 12 to 15 lb (5.5 to 7 kg) during menopause.
    * Pregnancy -- Women may not lose the weight they gained during pregnancy. 
![Childhood obesity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23230.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history, eating habits, and exercise routine.

The two most common ways to assess your weight and measure health risks
related to your weight are:

    * Body mass index (BMI)
    * Waist circumference (your waist measurement in inches or centimeters) 

BMI is calculated using height and weight. You and your provider can use your
BMI to estimate how much body fat you have.

Your waist measurement is another way to estimate how much body fat you have.
Extra weight around your middle or stomach area increases your risk for type 2
diabetes, heart disease, and stroke. People with "apple-shaped" bodies
(meaning they tend to store fat around their waist and have a slim lower body)
also have an increased risk for these diseases.

![Obesity and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19473.jpg)

Skin fold measurements may be taken to check your body fat percentage.

Blood tests may be done to look for thyroid or hormone problems that could
lead to weight gain.

## Treatment

CHANGING YOUR LIFESTYLE

An active lifestyle and plenty of exercise, along with healthy eating, is the
safest way to lose weight. Even modest weight loss can improve your health.
You may need a lot of support from family and friends.

Your main goal should be to learn new, healthy ways of eating and make them
part of your daily routine.

Many people find it hard to change their eating habits and behaviors. You may
have practiced some habits for so long that you may not even know they are
unhealthy, or you do them without thinking. You need to be motivated to make
lifestyle changes. Make the behavior change part of your life over the long
term. Know that it takes time to make and keep a change in your lifestyle.

Work with your provider and dietitian to set realistic, safe daily calorie
counts that help you lose weight while staying healthy. Remember that if you
drop weight slowly and steadily, you are more likely to keep it off. Your
dietitian can teach you about:

    * Healthy food choices at home and in restaurants
    * Healthy snacks
    * Reading nutrition labels and healthy grocery shopping
    * New ways to prepare food
    * Portion sizes
    * Sweetened drinks

Extreme diets (fewer than 1,100 calories per day) are not thought to be safe
or to work very well. These types of diets often do not contain enough
vitamins and minerals. Most people who lose weight this way return to
overeating and become obese again.

Learn ways to manage stress other than snacking. Examples may be meditation,
yoga, or exercise. If you are depressed or stressed a lot, talk to your
provider.

MEDICINES AND HERBAL REMEDIES

You may see ads for supplements and herbal remedies that claim they will help
you lose weight. Some of these claims may not be true. And some of these
supplements can have serious side effects. Talk to your provider before using
them.

You can discuss weight loss medicines with yourÂ provider. Many people lose at
least 5 lb (2 kg) by taking these drugs, but they may regain the weight when
they stop taking the medicine unless they have made lifestyle changes.

SURGERY

Bariatric (weight-loss) surgery can reduce the risk of certain diseases in
people with severe obesity. These risks include:

    * Arthritis
    * Diabetes
    * Heart disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Sleep apnea
    * Some cancers
    * Stroke

Surgery may help people who have been very obese for 5 years or more and have
not lost weight from other treatments, such as diet, exercise, or medicine.

Surgery alone is not the answer for weight loss. It can train you to eat less,
but you still have to do much of the work. You must be committed to diet and
exercise after surgery. Talk to your provider to learn if surgery is a good
option for you.

Weight-loss surgeries include:

    * Laparoscopic gastric banding
    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Sleeve gastrectomy
    * Duodenal switch

## Support Groups

Many people find it easier to follow a diet and exercise program if they join
a group of people with similar problems.

## Possible Complications

Obesity is a major health threat. The extra weight creates many risks to your
health.

## Alternative Names

Morbid obesity; Fat - obese

## Patient Instructions

    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * How to read food labels
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 
    * Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

## Images

    * ![Childhood obesity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23230t.jpg)Childhood obesity
    * ![Obesity and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19473t.jpg)Obesity and health

## References

Cowley MA, Brown WA, Considine RV. Obesity: the problem and its management.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the
management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines and The Obesity Society. _Circulation_. 2014;129 (25 Suppl
2):S102-S138. PMID: 24222017 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222017.

Mingrone G, Panunzi S, De Gaetano A, et al. Bariatric-metabolic surgery versus
conventional medical treatment in obese patients with type 2 diabetes: 5 year
follow-up of an open-label, single-centre, randomised controlled trial.
_Lancet_. 2015;386(9997):964-973. PMID: 26369473
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26369473.

Pilitsi E, Farr OM, Polyzos SA, et al. Pharmacotherapy of obesity: available
medications and drugs under investigation. _Metabolism_. 2019;92:170-192.
PMID: 30391259 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30391259.

Raynor HA, Champagne CM. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics:
interventions for the treatment of overweight and obesity in adults. _J Acad
Nutr Diet._ 2016;116(1):129-147. PMID: 26718656
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26718656.

Richards WO. Morbid obesity. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery._ 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier: 2017:chap 47.

## Review Date 2/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Internal review and
update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Obesity](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Obesity_thumb.jpg)Obesity _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

