Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003362.htm    
                                Description: Serum phenylalanine screening is a blood test to look for signs of the disease phenylketonuria (PKU). The test detects abnormally high levels of an amino acid called phenylalanine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Serum phenylalanine screening

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003362.htm

# Serum phenylalanine screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Serum phenylalanine screening is a blood test to look for signs of the disease
phenylketonuria (PKU). The test detects abnormally high levels of an amino
acid called phenylalanine.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is most often done as part of routine screening tests before a
newborn leaves the hospital. If the child is not born in a hospital, the test
should be done in the first 48 to 72 hours of life.

An area of the infant's skin, most often the heel, is cleaned with a germ
killer and punctured with a sharp needle or a lancet. Three drops of blood are
placed in 3 separate test circles on a piece of paper. Cotton or a bandage may
be applied to the puncture site if it is still bleeding after the blood drops
are taken.

The test paper is taken to the laboratory, where it is mixed with a type of
bacteria that needs phenylalanine to grow. Another substance that blocks
phenylalanine from reacting with anything else is added.

Newborn screening testsÂ is a related article.

## How to Prepare for the Test

For help preparing your baby for the test, see infant test or procedure
preparation (birth to 1 year).

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some infants feel moderate pain,
while others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing. Infants are given a small amount of sugar water, which has
been shown to reduce the painful sensation associated with the skin puncture.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to screen infants for PKU, a fairly rare condition that
occurs when the body lacks a substance needed to breakdown the amino acid
phenylalanine.

If PKU is not detected early, increasing phenylalanine levels in the baby will
cause intellectual disability. When discovered early, changes in the diet can
help prevent the severe side effects of PKU.

## Normal Results

A normal test result means that phenylalanine levels are normal and the child
does not have PKU.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your baby's test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the screening test results are abnormal, PKU is a possibility. Further
testing will be done if the phenylalanine levels in your baby's blood are too
high.

## Risks

The risks of having blood drawn are slight, but include:

    * Excessive bleeding 
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded 
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin) 
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins

## Alternative Names

Phenylalanine - blood test; PKU - phenylalanine

## References

McPherson RA. Specific proteins. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Pasquali M, Longo N. Newborn screening and inborn errors of metabolism. In:
Rifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 70.

Zinn AB. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC,
eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 99.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Newborn
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NewbornScreening_thumb.jpg)Newborn
Screening _Read more_

![Phenylketonuria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Phenylketonuria_thumb.jpg)Phenylketonuria
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

