Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/phenylketonuria-pku-screening/    
                                Description: Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare disorder that can cause severe brain damage and other complications. A PKU screening test is given to newborns to help diagnose the disease, so it can be treated before it causes health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Phenylketonuria (PKU) Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/phenylketonuria-pku-
screening/

# Phenylketonuria (PKU) Screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a PKU screening test?

A PKU screening test is a blood test given to newborns 24â72 hours after
birth. PKU stands for phenylketonuria, a rare disorder that prevents the body
from properly breaking down a substance called phenylalanine (Phe). Phe is
part of proteins that are found in many foods and in an artificial sweetener
called aspartame.

If you have PKU and eat these foods, Phe will build up in the blood. High
levels of Phe can permanently damage the nervous system and brain, causing a
variety of health problems. These include seizures, psychiatric problems, and
severe intellectual disability.

PKU is caused by a genetic mutation, a change in the normal function of a
gene. Genes are the basic units of heredity passed down from your mother and
father. For a child to get the disorder, both the mother and father must pass
down a mutated PKU gene.

Although PKU is rare, all newborns in the United States are required to get a
PKU test.

    * The test is easy, with virtually no health risk. But it can save a baby from lifelong brain damage and/or other serious health problems.
    * If PKU is found early, following a special, low-protein/low-Phe diet can prevent complications.
    * There are specially-made formulas for infants with PKU.
    * People with PKU need to stay on the protein/low-Phe diet for the rest of their lives.

Other names: PKU newborn screening, PKU test

## What is it used for?

A PKU test is used to see if a newborn has high levels of Phe in the blood.
This may mean the baby has PKU, and more tests will be ordered to confirm or
rule out a diagnosis.

## Why does my baby need a PKU screening test?

Newborns in the United States are required to get a PKU test. A PKU test is
usually part of a series of tests called a newborn screening. Some older
infants and children may need testing if they were adopted from another
country, and/or if they have any symptoms of PKU, which include:

    * Delayed development
    * Intellectual difficulties
    * A musty odor in the breath, skin, and/or urine
    * Abnormally small head (microcephaly)

## What happens during a PKU screening test?

A health care provider will clean your baby's heel with alcohol and poke the
heel with a small needle. The provider will collect a few drops of blood and
put a bandage on the site.

The test should be done no sooner than 24 hours after birth, to ensure the
baby has taken in some protein, either from breast milk or formula. This will
help ensure the results are accurate. But the test should be done between
24â72 hours after birth to prevent possible PKU complications. If your baby
wasn't born in the hospital or if you left the hospital early, be sure to talk
to your child's health care provider to schedule a PKU test as soon as
possible.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare my baby for the test?

There are no special preparations needed for a PKU test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to your baby with a needle stick test. Your baby may
feel a little pinch when the heel is poked, and a small bruise may form at the
site. This should go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your baby's results were not normal, your health care provider will order
more tests to confirm or rule out PKU. These tests may include more blood
tests and/or urine tests. You and your baby may also get genetic tests, since
PKU is an inherited condition.

If the results were normal, but the test was done sooner than 24 hours after
birth, your baby may need to be tested again at 1 to 2 weeks of age.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a PKU screening test?

If your baby was diagnosed with PKU, he or she can drink formula that does not
contain Phe. If you would like to breastfeed, talk your health care provider.
Breast milk does contain Phe, but your baby may be able to have a limited
amount, supplemented by the Phe-free formula. Regardless, your child will need
to stay on a special low-protein diet for life. A PKU diet usually means
avoiding high-protein foods such as meat, fish, eggs, dairy, nuts, and beans.
Instead, the diet will probably include cereals, starches, fruits, a milk
substitute, and other items with low or no Phe.

Your child's health care provider may recommend one or more specialists and
other resources to help you manage your baby's diet and keep your child
healthy. There are also a variety of resources available to teens and adults
with PKU. If you have PKU, talk to your health care provider about the best
ways to take care of your dietary and health needs.

## References

    1. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Phenylketonuria (PKU) [updated 2017 Aug 5; cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/birth-defects/phenylketonuria-pku
    2. Children's PKU Network [Internet]. Encinitas (CA): Children's PKU Network; The PKU Story [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.pkunetwork.org/Childrens_PKU_Network/What_is_PKU.html
    3. March of Dimes [Internet]. White Plains (NY): March of Dimes; c2018. PKU (Phenylketonuria) in Your Baby [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.marchofdimes.org/complications/phenylketonuria-in-your-baby.aspx
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Phenylketonuria (PKU): Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Jan 27 [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/phenylketonuria/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20376308
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Phenylketonuria (PKU): Symptoms and causes; 2018 Jan 27 [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/phenylketonuria/symptoms-causes/syc-20376302
    6. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Phenylketonuria (PKU) [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/hereditary-metabolic-disorders/phenylketonuria-pku
    7. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    8. National PKU Alliance [Internet]. Eau Claire (WI): National PKU Alliance. c2017. About PKU [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://npkua.org/Education/About-PKU
    9. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Phenylketonuria; 2018 Jul 17 [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/phenylketonuria
    10. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is a gene mutation and how do mutations occur?; 2018 Jul 17 [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/mutationsanddisorders/genemutation
    11. NORD: National Organization for Rare Disorders [Internet]. Danbury (CT): NORD: National Organization for Rare Disorders; c2018. Phenylketonuria [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/phenylketonuria
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Phenylketonuria (PKU) [cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=pku
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Phenylketonuria (PKU) Test: How It Feels [updated 2017 May 4; cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phenylketonuria-pku-test/hw41965.html#hw41978
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Phenylketonuria (PKU) Test: How It is Done [updated 2017 May 4; cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phenylketonuria-pku-test/hw41965.html#hw41977
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Phenylketonuria (PKU) Test: Test Overview [updated 2017 May 4; cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phenylketonuria-pku-test/hw41965.html#hw41968
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Phenylketonuria (PKU) Test: What To Think About [updated 2017 May 4; cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phenylketonuria-pku-test/hw41965.html#hw41983
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Phenylketonuria (PKU) Test: Why It is Done [updated 2017 May 4; cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/phenylketonuria-pku-test/hw41965.html#hw41973

## Related Health Topics

    * Dietary Proteins
    * Genetic Counseling
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Genetic Testing
    * Neurologic Diseases
    * Newborn Screening
    * Phenylketonuria

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

