Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001166.htm    
                                Description: Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare condition in which a baby is born without the ability to properly break down an amino acid called phenylalanine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Phenylketonuria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001166.htm

# Phenylketonuria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare condition in which a baby is born without the
ability to properly break down an amino acid called phenylalanine.

## Causes

Phenylketonuria (PKU) is inherited, which means it is passed down through
families. Both parents must pass on a nonworking copy of the gene in order for
a baby to have the condition. When this is the case, their children have a 1
in 4 chance of being affected.

Babies with PKU are missing an enzyme called phenylalanine hydroxylase. It is
needed to break down the essential amino acid phenylalanine. Phenylalanine is
found in foods that contain protein.

Without the enzyme, levels of phenylalanine build up in the body. This buildup
can harm the central nervous system and cause brain damage.

## Symptoms

Phenylalanine plays a role in the body's production of melanin. The pigment is
responsible for skin and hair color. Therefore, infants with the condition
often have lighter skin, hair, and eyes than brothers or sisters without the
disease.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Delayed mental and social skills
    * Head size much smaller than normal
    * Hyperactivity
    * Jerking movements of the arms or legs
    * Mental disability
    * Seizures
    * Skin rashes
    * Tremors

If PKU is untreated, or if foods containing phenylalanine are eaten, the
breath, skin, ear wax, and urine may have a "mousy" or "musty" odor. This odor
is due to a buildup of phenylalanine substances in the body.

## Exams and Tests

PKU can be easily detected with a simple blood test. All states in the United
States require a PKU screening test for all newborns as part of the newborn
screening panel. The test is generally done by taking a few drops of blood
from the baby before the baby leaves the hospital.

If the screening test is positive, further blood and urine tests are required
to confirm the diagnosis. Genetic testing is also done.

## Treatment

PKU is a treatable disease. Treatment involves a diet that is very low in
phenylalanine, particularly when the child is growing. The diet must be
strictly followed. This requires close supervision by a registered dietitian
or doctor, and cooperation of the parent and child. Those who continue the
diet into adulthood have better physical and mental health than those who
don't stay on it. "Diet for life" has become the standard most experts
recommend. Women who have PKU need to follow the diet before conception and
throughout pregnancy.

There are large amounts of phenylalanine in milk, eggs, and other common
foods. The artificial sweetener NutraSweet (aspartame) also contains
phenylalanine. Any products containing aspartame should be avoided.

There are several special formulas made for infants with PKU. These can be
used as a protein source that is extremely low in phenylalanine and balanced
for the remaining essential amino acids. Older children and adults use a
different formula that provides protein in the amounts they need. People with
PKU need to take formula every day for their entire life.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is expected to be very good if the diet is closely followed,
starting shortly after the child's birth. If treatment is delayed or the
condition remains untreated, brain damage will occur. School functioning may
be mildly impaired.

If proteins containing phenylalanine are not avoided, PKU can lead to mental
disability by the end of the first year of life.

## Possible Complications

Severe mental disability occurs if the disorder is untreated. ADHD (attention-
deficit hyperactivity disorder) appears to be a common problem in those who do
not stick to a very low-phenylalanine diet.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your infant has not been tested for PKU.
This is particularly important if anyone in your family has the disorder.

## Prevention

An enzyme assay or genetic testing can determine if parents carry the gene for
PKU. Chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis can be done during pregnancy
to test the unborn baby for PKU.

It is very important that women with PKU closely follow a strict low-
phenylalanine diet both before becoming pregnant and throughout the pregnancy.
Buildup of phenylalanine will damage the developing baby, even if the child
has not inherited the full disease.

## Alternative Names

PKU; Neonatal phenylketonuria

## Images

    * ![Phenylketonuria test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2961t.jpg)Phenylketonuria test
    * ![Newborn screening testing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2962t.jpg)Newborn screening testing

## References

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Defects in
metabolism of amino acids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 103.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Genetic and pediatric diseases. In: Kumar V,
Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robins Basic Pathology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 7.

Vockley J, Andersson HC, Antshel KM, et al; American College of Medical
Genetics and Genomics Therapeutics Committee. Phenylalanine hydroxylase
deficiency: diagnosis and management guideline. _Genet Med_.
2014;16(2):188-200. PMID: 24385074 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24385074.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Phenylketonuria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Phenylketonuria_thumb.jpg)Phenylketonuria
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

