Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000335.htm    
                                Description: Metabolic acidosis is a condition in which there is too much acid in the body fluids.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metabolic acidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000335.htm

# Metabolic acidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Metabolic acidosis is a condition in which there is too much acid in the body
fluids.

## Causes

Metabolic acidosis occurs when the body produces too much acid. It can also
occur when the kidneys are not removing enough acid from the body.

There are several types of metabolic acidosis.

Diabetic acidosis develops when acidic substances, known as ketone bodies,
build up in the body. This most often occurs with uncontrolled type 1
diabetes. It is also called diabetic ketoacidosis and DKA.

Hyperchloremic acidosis results from excessive loss of sodium bicarbonate from
the body. This can occur with severe diarrhea.

Lactic acidosis results from a buildup of lactic acid. It can be caused by:

    * Alcohol
    * Cancer
    * Exercising intensely
    * Liver failure
    * Medicines, such as salicylates
    * Prolonged lack of oxygen from shock, heart failure, or severe anemia
    * Seizures

Other causes of metabolic acidosis include:

    * Kidney disease (distal renal tubular acidosis and proximal renal tubular acidosis)
    * Poisoning by aspirin, ethylene glycol (found in antifreeze), or methanol
    * Severe dehydration

## Symptoms

Most symptoms are caused by the underlying disease or condition that is
causing the metabolic acidosis. Metabolic acidosis itself most often causes
rapid breathing. Acting confused or very tired may also occur. Severe
metabolic acidosis can lead to shock or death. In some situations, metabolic
acidosis can be a mild, ongoing (chronic) condition.

## Exams and Tests

These tests can help diagnose acidosis. They can also determine whether the
cause is a breathing problem or a metabolic problem. Tests may include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Basic metabolic panel, (a group of blood tests that measure your sodium and potassium levels, kidney function, and other chemicals and functions)
    * Urine pH
    * Urine ketones or blood ketones
    * Lactic acid test
    * Arterial blood gas analysis 

Other tests may be needed to determine the cause of the acidosis.

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at the health problem causing the acidosis. In some cases,
sodium bicarbonate (the chemical in baking soda) may be given to reduce the
acidity of the blood. Often, you will receive lots of fluids through your
vein.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook will depend on the underlying disease causing the condition.

## Possible Complications

Very severe metabolic acidosis can lead to shock or death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help if you have symptoms of any disease that can cause metabolic
acidosis.

## Prevention

Diabetic ketoacidosis can be prevented by keeping type 1 diabetes under
control.

## Alternative Names

Acidosis - metabolic

## Images

    * ![Insulin production and diabetes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8888t.jpg)Insulin production and diabetes

## References

DuBose TD. Disorders of acid-base balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Krapf R, Seldin DW, Alpern RJ. Clinical syndromes of metabolic acidosis. In:
Alpern RJ, Moe OW, Caplan M, eds. _Seldin and Giebisch's The Kidney_. 5th ed.
Waltham, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2013:chap 59.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

