Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001181.htm    
                                Description: Acidosis is a condition in which there is too much acid in the body fluids. It is the opposite of alkalosis (a condition in which there is too much base in the body fluids).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001181.htm

# Acidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acidosis is a condition in which there is too much acid in the body fluids. It
is the opposite of alkalosis (a condition in which there is too much base in
the body fluids).

## Causes

The kidneys and lungs maintain the balance (proper pH level) of chemicals
called acids and bases in the body. Acidosis occurs when acid builds up or
when bicarbonate (a base) is lost. Acidosis is classified as either
respiratory or metabolic acidosis.

Respiratory acidosis develops when there is too much carbon dioxide (an acid)
in the body. This type of acidosis is usually caused when the body is unable
to remove enough carbon dioxide through breathing. Other names for respiratory
acidosis are hypercapnic acidosis and carbon dioxide acidosis. Causes of
respiratory acidosis include:

    * Chest deformities, such as kyphosis
    * Chest injuries
    * Chest muscle weakness
    * Long-term (chronic) lung disease
    * Neuromuscular disorders, such as myasthenia gravis, muscular dystrophy  

    * Overuse of sedative drugs

Metabolic acidosis develops when too much acid is produced in the body. It can
also occur when the kidneys cannot remove enough acid from the body. There are
several types of metabolic acidosis:

    * Diabetic acidosis (also called diabetic ketoacidosis and DKA) develops when substances called ketone bodies (which are acidic) build up during uncontrolled diabetes.
    * Hyperchloremic acidosis is caused by the loss of too much sodium bicarbonate from the body, which can happen with severe diarrhea.
    * Kidney disease (distal renal tubular acidosis and proximal renal tubular acidosis).
    * Poisoning by aspirin, ethylene glycol (found in antifreeze), or methanol.
    * Severe dehydration.

Lactic acidosis is a buildup of lactic acid. Lactic acid is mainly produced in
muscle cells and red blood cells. It forms when the body breaks down
carbohydrates to use for energy when oxygen levels are low. This can be caused
by:

    * Cancer
    * Drinking too much alcohol
    * Exercising vigorously for a very long time
    * Liver failure
    * Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
    * Medications, such as salicylates, metformin, anti-retrovirals
    * MELAS (a very rare genetic mitochondrial disorder that affects energy production)
    * Prolonged lack of oxygen from shock, heart failure, or severe anemia
    * Seizures
    * Sepsis \-- severe illness due to infection with bacteria or other germs
    * Carbon monoxide poisoning
    * Severe asthma

## Symptoms

Metabolic acidosis symptoms depend on the underlying disease or condition.
Metabolic acidosis itself causes rapid breathing. Confusion or lethargy may
also occur. Severe metabolic acidosis can lead to shock or death.

Respiratory acidosis symptoms can include:

    * Confusion
    * Fatigue
    * Lethargy
    * Shortness of breath
    * Sleepiness

## Exams and Tests

TheÂ health care providerÂ will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms.

Laboratory tests that may be ordered include:

    * Arterial blood gas analysis
    * Electrolytes test, such as a basic metabolic panel, to confirm acidosis and show whether it is metabolic or respiratory acidosis

Other tests that may be needed to determine the cause of the acidosis include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT abdomen

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause. Your provider will tell you more.  

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Acidosis can be dangerous if untreated. Many cases respond well to treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the specific type of acidosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

All the types of acidosis will cause symptoms that require treatment by your
provider.

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the cause of the acidosis. Many causes of metabolic
acidosis can be prevented, including diabetic ketoacidosis and some causes of
lactic acidosis. Normally, people with healthy kidneys and lungs do not have
serious acidosis.

## Images

    * ![Kidneys](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8819t.jpg)Kidneys

## References

Effros RM, Swenson ER. Acid-base balance. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 7.

Oh MS, Briefel G. Evaluation of renal function, water, electrolytes, and acid-
base balance. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis
and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

