Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001161.htm    
                                Description: Metabolic neuropathies are nerve disorders that occur with diseases that disrupt the chemical processes in the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metabolic neuropathies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001161.htm

# Metabolic neuropathies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Metabolic neuropathies are nerve disorders that occur with diseases that
disrupt the chemical processes in the body

## Causes

Nerve damage can be caused by many different things. Metabolic neuropathy may
be caused by:

    * A problem with the body's ability to use energy, often due to a lack of enough nutrients (nutritional deficiency)
    * Dangerous substances (toxins) that build up in the body 

Diabetes is one of the most common causes of metabolic neuropathies. People
who are at the highest risk for nerve damage (diabetic neuropathy) from
diabetes include those who have:

    * Damage to the kidneys or eyes
    * Poorly controlled blood sugar 

Other common causes of metabolic neuropathies include:

    * Alcohol use disorder (alcoholic neuropathy)
    * Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
    * Kidney failure
    * Inherited conditions, such asÂ porphyria
    * Severe infection throughout the body (sepsis)
    * Thyroid disease
    * Vitamin deficiencies (including vitamins B12, B6,Â E, and B1) 

Some metabolic disorders are passed down through families (inherited), while
others develop due to various diseases.

## Symptoms

These symptoms occur because nerves cannot send proper signals to and from
your brain:

    * Difficulty feeling in any area of the body
    * Difficulty using the arms or hands
    * Difficulty using the legs or feet
    * Difficulty walking
    * Pain, burning feeling, pins and needles feeling, or shooting pains in any area of the body (nerve pain)
    * Weakness in the face, arms, legs, or other areas of the body
    * Dysautonomia, which affects the autonomic (involuntary) nervous system, resulting in symptoms such as rapid heart rate, exercise intolerance, low blood pressure when standing, abnormal sweat patterns, stomach problems, abnormal functioning of the pupils of the eye, and poor erection

These symptoms often start in the toes and feet and move up the legs,
eventually affecting the hands and arms.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood tests
    * Electrical test of the muscles (EMG)
    * Electrical test of nerve conduction 

## Treatment

For most metabolic neuropathies, the best treatment is to correct the
metabolic problem.

Vitamin deficiencies are treated with diet or with vitamins by mouth or by
injection. Abnormal blood sugar level or thyroid function may need medicines
to correct the problem. For alcoholic neuropathy, the best treatment is to
stop drinking.

In some cases, pain is treated with medicines that reduce abnormal pain
signals from the nerves. In some cases, lotions, creams, or medicated patches
can provide relief.

Weakness is often treated with physical therapy. You may need to learn how to
use a cane or walker if your balance is affected. You may need special ankle
braces to help you walk better.

## Support Groups

These groups can provide more information on neuropathy:

    * Neuropathy Action Foundation -- www.neuropathyaction.org
    * The Foundation for Peripherial Neuropathy -- www.foundationforpn.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook mainly depends on the cause of the disorder. In some cases, the
problem can easily be treated. In other cases, the metabolic problem cannot be
controlled, and nerves may continue to become damaged.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Deformity
    * Injury to feet
    * Numbness or weakness
    * Pain
    * Trouble walking

## Prevention

Maintaining a healthy lifestyle can reduce the risk for neuropathy.

    * Avoid excess alcohol use.
    * Eat a balanced diet.
    * VisitÂ your provider regularly to find metabolic disorders before neuropathy develops. 

If you have neuropathy in your feet, a foot doctorÂ (podiatrist) can teach you
how to inspect your feet for signs of injury and infection. Proper fitting
shoes can lessen the chance of skin breakdown in sensitive areas of the feet.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - metabolic

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
    * ![Deep anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9676t.jpg)Deep anterior muscles

## References

Dhawan PS, Goodman BP. Neurologic manifestations of nutritional disorders. In:
Aminoff MJ, Josephson SA, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General Medicine_. 5th
ed. Walthman, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2014:chap 15.

Patterson MC, Percy AK. Peripheral neuropathy in inherited metabolic disease.
In: Darras BT, Jones HR, Ryan MM, De Vivo DC, eds. _Neuromuscular Disorders of
Infancy, Childhood, and Adolescence_. 2nd ed. Walthman, MA: Elsevier Academic
Press; 2015:chap 19.

Ralph JW, Aminoff MJ. Neuromuscular complications of general medical
disorders. In: Aminoff MJ, Josephson SA, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General
Medicine_. 5th ed. Walthman, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2014:chap 59.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 12-10-18: Editorial update.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

