Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000372.htm    
                                Description: Hereditary urea cycle abnormality is an inherited condition. It can cause problems with the removal of waste from the body in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hereditary urea cycle abnormality

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000372.htm

# Hereditary urea cycle abnormality

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hereditary urea cycle abnormality is an inherited condition. It can cause
problems with the removal of waste from the body in the urine.

## Causes

The urea cycle is a process in which waste (ammonia) is removed from the body.
When you eat proteins, the body breaks them down into amino acids. Ammonia is
produced from leftover amino acids, and it must be removed from the body.

The liver produces several chemicals (enzymes) that change ammonia into a form
called urea, which the body can remove in the urine. If this process is
disturbed, ammonia levels begin to rise.

Several inherited conditions can cause problems with this waste-removal
process. People with a urea cycle disorder are missing a gene that makes the
enzymes needed to break down ammonia in the body.

These diseases include:

    * Argininosuccinic aciduria
    * Arginase deficiency
    * Carbamyl phosphate synthetase (CPS) deficiency
    * Citrullinemia
    * N-acetyl glutamate synthetase (NAGS)Â deficiency
    * Ornithine transcarbamylaseÂ (OTC)Â deficiency

As a group, these disorders occur in 1 in 30,000 newborns. OTC deficiency is
the most common of these disorders.

Boys are more often affected by OTC deficiency than girls. Girls are rarely
affected. Those girls who are affected have milder symptoms and can develop
the disease later in life.

To get the other types of disorders, you need to receive a non-working copy of
the gene from both parents. Sometimes parents don't know they carry the gene
until their child gets the disorder.

## Symptoms

Typically, the baby begins nursing well and seems normal. However, over time
the baby develops poor feeding, vomiting, and sleepiness, which may be so deep
that the baby is difficult to awaken. This most often occurs within the first
week after birth.

Symptoms include:

    * Confusion
    * Decreased food intake
    * Dislike of foods that contain proteinÂ 
    * Increased sleepiness, difficulty waking up
    * Nausea, vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will often diagnose these disorders when the child is
still an infant.

Signs may include:

    * Abnormal amino acids in blood and urine
    * Abnormal level of orotic acid in blood or urine
    * High blood ammonia level
    * Normal level of acid in blood 

Tests may include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Blood ammonia
    * Blood glucose
    * Plasma amino acids
    * Urine organic acids
    * Genetic tests
    * Liver biopsy
    * MRI or CT scan

## Treatment

Limiting protein in the diet can help treat these disorders by reducing the
amount of nitrogen waste the body produces. (The waste is in the form of
ammonia.) Special low-protein infant and toddler formulas are available.

It is important that a provider guides protein intake. The provider can
balance the amount of protein the baby gets so that it is enough for growth,
but not enough to cause symptoms.

It is very important for people with these disorders to avoid fasting.

People with urea cycle abnormalities must also be very careful under times of
physical stress, such as when they have infections. Stress, such as a fever,
can cause the body to break down its own proteins. These extra proteins can
make it hard for the abnormal urea cycle to remove the byproducts.

Develop a plan with your provider for when you are sick to avoid all protein,
drink high carbohydrate drinks, and get enough fluids.

Most people with urea cycle disorders will need to stay in the hospital at
some point. During such times, they may be treated with medicines that help
the body remove nitrogen-containing wastes. Dialysis may help rid the body of
excess ammonia during extreme illness.

## Support Groups

National Urea Cycle Disorders Forum:Â www.nucdf.org/support.htm

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well people do depends on:

    * Which urea cycle abnormality they have
    * How severe it is
    * How early it is discovered
    * How closely they follow a protein-restricted diet

Babies diagnosed in the first week of life and put on a protein-restricted
diet right away may do well.

Sticking to the diet can lead to normal adult intelligence. Repeatedly not
following the diet or having stress-induced symptoms can lead to brain
swelling and brain damage.

Major stresses, such as surgery or accidents, can be complicated for people
with this condition. Extreme care is needed to avoid problems during such
periods.

## Possible Complications

Complications can include:

    * Coma
    * Confusion and eventually disorientation
    * Death
    * Increase in blood ammonia level
    * Swelling of the brain 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Prenatal testing is available. Genetic testing before an embryo is implanted
may be available for those using in vitro so the specific genetic cause is
known.

A dietician is important to help plan and update a protein-restricted diet as
the child grows.

## Prevention

As with most inherited diseases, there is no way to prevent these disorders.

Teamwork between parents, the affected child, and doctors can help prevent
severe illness.

## Alternative Names

Abnormality of the urea cycle - hereditary; Urea cycle - hereditary
abnormality

## Images

    * ![Urea cycle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17167t.jpg)Urea cycle

## References

Nagamani SCS, Lichter-Konecki U. Inborn errors of urea synthesis. In: Swaiman
KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology:
Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 38.

Rezvani I, Yudkoff M. Urea cycle and hyperammonemia (arginine, citrulline,
ornithine). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

Zinn AB. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC,
eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus
and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 99.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

