Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003507.htm    
                                Description: Lactic acid is mainly produced in muscle cells and red blood cells. It forms when the body breaks down carbohydrates to use for energy when oxygen levels are low. Times when your body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lactic acid test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003507.htm

# Lactic acid test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lactic acid is mainly produced in muscle cells and red blood cells. It forms
when the body breaks down carbohydrates to use for energy when oxygen levels
are low. Times when your body's oxygen level might drop include:

    * During intense exercise
    * When you have an infection or disease 

A test can be done to measure the amount of lactic acid in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT exercise for several hours before the test. Exercise can cause a
temporary increase in lactic acid levels.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done to diagnose lactic acidosis.

## Normal Results

Normal results range from 4.5 to 19.8Â milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) (0.5
to 2.2Â millimoles per liter [mmol/L]).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean that body tissues are not getting enough oxygen.

Conditions that can increase lactic acid levels include:

    * Heart failure
    * Liver disease
    * Lung disease
    * Not enough blood containing oxygen getting to a certain area of the body
    * Severe infection that affects the entire body (sepsis)
    * Very low levels of oxygen in the blood (hypoxia) 

## Considerations

Clenching the fist or having the elastic band in place for a long time while
having blood drawn can result in a false increase in lactic acid level.

## Alternative Names

Lactate test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Odom SR, Talmor D. What is the meaning of a high lactate? What are the
implications of lactic acidosis? In: Deutschman CS, Neligan PJ, eds.
_Evidence-Based Practice of Critical Care_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 59.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Tallentire VR, MacMahon MJ. Acute medicine and critical illness. In: Ralston
SH, Penman ID, Strachan MWJ, Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and
Practice of Medicine_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

