Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001183.htm    
                                Description: Alkalosis is a condition in which the body fluids have excess base (alkali). This is the opposite of excess acid (acidosis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alkalosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001183.htm

# Alkalosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alkalosis is a condition in which the body fluids have excess base (alkali).
This is the opposite of excess acid (acidosis).

## Causes

The kidneys and lungs maintain the proper balance (proper pH level) of
chemicals called acids and bases in the body. Decreased carbon dioxide (an
acid) level or increased bicarbonate (a base) level makes the body too
alkaline, a condition called alkalosis. There are different types of
alkalosis. These are described below.

Respiratory alkalosis is caused by a low carbon dioxide level in the blood.
This can be due to:

    * Fever
    * Being at a high altitude
    * Lack of oxygen
    * Liver disease
    * Lung disease, which causes you to breathe faster (hyperventilate)
    * Aspirin poisoning

Metabolic alkalosis is caused by too much bicarbonate in the blood. It can
also occur due to certain kidney diseases.

Hypochloremic alkalosis is caused by an extreme lack or loss of chloride, such
as from prolonged vomiting.

Hypokalemic alkalosis is caused by the kidneys' response to an extreme lack or
loss of potassium. This can occur from taking certain water pills (diuretics).

Compensated alkalosis occurs when the body returns the acid-base balance to
normal in cases of alkalosis, but bicarbonate and carbon dioxide levels remain
abnormal.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of alkalosis can include any of the following:

    * Confusion (can progress to stupor or coma)
    * Hand tremor
    * Lightheadedness
    * Muscle twitching
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Numbness or tingling in the face, hands, or feet
    * Prolonged muscle spasms (tetany) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Laboratory tests that may be ordered include:

    * Arterial blood gas analysis.
    * Electrolytes test, such as basic metabolic panel to confirm alkalosis and show whether it is respiratory or metabolic alkalosis.

Other tests may be needed to determine the cause of the alkalosis. These may
include:

    * Urinalysis
    * Urine pH

## Treatment

To treat alkalosis, your provider needs to first find the underlying cause.

For alkalosis caused by hyperventilation, breathing into a paper bag allows
you to keep more carbon dioxide in your body, which improves the alkalosis. If
your oxygen level is low, you may receive oxygen.

Medicines may be needed to correct chemical loss (such as chloride and
potassium). Your provider will monitor your vital signs (temperature, pulse,
rate of breathing, and blood pressure).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of alkalosis respond well to treatment.

## Possible Complications

Untreated or not treated properly, complications may include any of the
following:

    * Arrhythmias (heart beating too fast, too slow, or irregularly) 
    * Coma
    * Electrolyte imbalance (such as low potassium level) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you become confused, unable to concentrate, or unable to
"catch your breath."

Go to the emergency room or callÂ the local emergency number (such as 911) if
there is:

    * Loss of consciousness
    * Rapidly worsening symptoms of alkalosis
    * Seizures
    * Severe breathing difficulties

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the cause of the alkalosis. People with healthy kidneys
and lungs do not usually have serious alkalosis.

## Images

    * ![Kidneys](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8819t.jpg)Kidneys

## References

Little M. Metabolic emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown A,
Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 12.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

