Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001199.htm    
                                Description: Homocystinuria is an inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of the amino acid methionine. Amino acids are the building blocks of life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Homocystinuria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001199.htm

# Homocystinuria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Homocystinuria is an inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of the
amino acid methionine. Amino acids are the building blocks of life.

## Causes

Homocystinuria is inherited in families as an autosomal recessive trait. This
means that the child must inherit a non-working copy of the gene from each
parent to be seriously affected.

Homocystinuria has several features in common with Marfan syndrome, including
skeletal and eye changes.

## Symptoms

Newborn infants appear healthy. Early symptoms, if present, are not obvious.

Symptoms may occur as mildly delayed development or failure to thrive.
Increasing visual problems may lead to diagnosis of this condition.

Other symptoms include:

    * Chest deformities (pectus carinatum, pectus excavatum)
    * Flush across the cheeks
    * High arches of the feet
    * Intellectual disability
    * Knock knees
    * Long limbs
    * Mental disorders
    * Nearsightedness
    * Spidery fingers (arachnodactyly)
    * Tall, thin build 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may notice that the child is tall andÂ thin.

Other signs include:

    * Curved spine (scoliosis)
    * Deformity of the chest
    * Dislocated lens of the eye 

If there is poor or double vision, an eye doctor (ophthalmologist) will
perform a dilated eye exam to look for dislocation of the lens or
nearsightedness.

There may be a history of blood clots. Intellectual disability or mental
illness is also possible.

Tests that may be ordered include any of the following:

    * Amino acid screen of blood and urine
    * Genetic testing
    * Liver biopsy and enzyme assay
    * Skeletal x-ray
    * Skin biopsy with a fibroblast culture
    * Standard ophthalmic exam

## Treatment

There is no cure for homocystinuria. About half of people with the disease
respond to vitamin B6 (also known as pyridoxine).

Those who do respond will need to take vitamin B6, B9 (folate), and B12
supplements for the rest of their lives. Those who do not respond will need to
eat a low-methionine diet. Most will need to be treated with trimethylglycine
(a medicine also known as betaine).

Neither a low-methionine diet nor medicine will improve existing intellectual
disability. Medicine and diet should be closely supervised by a doctor who has
experience treating homocystinuria.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information about homocystinuria:

    * HCU Network America -- hcunetworkamerica.org
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/homocystinuria

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Although no cure exists for homocystinuria, vitamin B therapy can help about
half of people affected by the condition.

If the diagnosis is made in childhood, starting a low-methionine diet quickly
may prevent some intellectual disability and other complications of the
disease. For this reason, some states screen for homocystinuria in all
newborns.

People whose blood homocysteine levels continue to rise are at increased risk
for blood clots. Clots can cause serious medical problems and shorten
lifespan.

## Possible Complications

Most serious complications result from blood clots. These episodes can be life
threatening.

Dislocated lenses of the eyes can seriously damage vision. Lens replacement
surgery may be needed.

Intellectual disability is a serious consequence of the disease. But, it can
be reduced if diagnosed early.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or a family member shows symptoms of this disorder,
especially if you have a family history of homocystinuria.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for people with a family history of
homocystinuria who want to have children. Prenatal diagnosis of homocystinuria
is available. This involves culturing amniotic cells or chorionic villi to
test for cystathionine synthase (the enzyme that is missing in
homocystinuria).

If there are known gene defect in the parents or family, samples from
chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis can be used to test for these
defects.

## Alternative Names

Cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency; CBS deficiency; HCY

## Images

    * ![Pectus excavatum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2927t.jpg)Pectus excavatum

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Defects in metabolism of amino
acids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

Schiff M, Blom H. Homocystinuria and hyperhomocysteinemia. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 209.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

