Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007508.htm    
                                Description: Obesity means having too much body fat. It is not the same as overweight, which means a childâs weight is in the upper range of children of the same age and height. Overweight may be due to extra muscle,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Obesity in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007508.htm

# Obesity in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obesity means having too much body fat. It is not the same as overweight,
which means a childâs weight is in the upper range of children of the same
age and height. Overweight may be due to extra muscle, bone, or water, as well
as too much fat.

Both terms mean that a child's weight is higher than what is thought to be
healthy.

## Causes

When children eat more food than their bodies need for normal growth and
activity, the extra calories are stored in fat cells for later use. If this
pattern continues over time, they develop more fat cells and may develop
obesity.

Normally, infants and young children respond to signals of hunger and fullness
so that they do not consume more calories than their bodies need. However,
changes over the last few decades in lifestyle and food choices have led to
the rise of obesity among children.

Children are surrounded by many things that make it easy to overeat and harder
to be active. Foods that are high in fat and sugar content often come in large
portion sizes. These factors can lead children to take in more calories than
they need before they feel full. TV commercials and other screen ads can lead
to unhealthy food choices. Most of the time, the food in ads aimed atÂ
children is high in sugar, salt, or fats.

"Screen time" activities such as watching television, gaming, texting, and
playing on the computer require very little energy. They often take the place
of healthy physical exercise. Also, children tend to crave unhealthy snack
foods they see in TV ads.

Other factors in the child's environment can also lead to obesity. Family,
friends, and school setting help shape a child's diet and exercise choices.
Food may be used as a reward or to comfort a child. These learned habits can
lead to overeating. Many people have a hard time breaking these habits later
in life.

Genetics, medical conditions, and emotional disorders can also increase a
child's risk for obesity. Hormone disorders or low thyroid function, and
certain medicines, such as steroids or anti-seizure medicines, can increase a
child's appetite. Over time, this increases their risk for obesity.

An unhealthy focus on eating, weight, and body image can lead to an eating
disorder. Obesity and eating disorders often occur at the same time in teenage
girls and young adult women who may be unhappy with their body image.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
your child's medical history, eating habits, and exercise routine.

Blood tests may be done to look for thyroid or endocrine problems. These
conditions could lead to weight gain.

Child health experts recommend that children be screened for obesity at age 6.
Your child's body mass index (BMI) is calculated using height and weight. A
provider uses a BMI formula designed for growing children to estimate your
child's body fat.

## Treatment

SUPPORTING YOUR CHILD

The first step in helping your child get to a healthy weight is to talk to the
child's provider. The provider can help to set healthy goals for weight lossÂ
and help with monitoring and support.

Try to get the whole family to join in making healthy behavior changes.
Weight-loss plans for children focus on healthy lifestyle habits. A healthy
lifestyle is good for everyone, even if weight loss is not the main goal.

Having support from friends and family can also help your child lose weight.

CHANGING YOUR CHILD'S LIFESTYLE

Eating a balanced diet means you child consumes the right types and amounts of
foods and drinks to keep their body healthy.

    * Know the right portion sizes for your child's age so your child gets enough nutrition without overeating.
    * Shop for healthy foods and make them available to your child.
    * Choose a variety of healthy foods from each of the food groups. Eat foods from each group at every meal.
    * Learn more about eating healthy and eating out.
    * Choosing healthy snacks and drinks for your children is important.
    * Fruits and vegetables are good choices for healthy snacks. They are full of vitamins and low in calories and fat. Some crackers and cheeses also make good snacks.
    * Limit junk-food snacks like chips, candy, cake, cookies, and ice cream. The best way to keep kids from eating junk food or other unhealthy snacks is to not have these foods in your house.
    * Avoid sodas, sport drinks, and flavored waters, especially ones made with sugar or corn syrup. These drinks are high in calories and can lead to weight gain. If needed, choose beverages with artificial (man-made) sweeteners.

Make sure children have a chance to engage in healthy physical activity every
day.

    * Experts recommendÂ children get 60 minutes of moderate activity every day. Moderate activity means you breathe more deeply than when at rest and your heart beats faster than normal.
    * If your child is not athletic, find ways to motivate your child to be more active.
    * Encourage children to play, run, bike, and play sports during their free time.
    * Children should not watch more than 2 hours ofÂ television a day.

WHAT ELSE TO THINK ABOUT

Talk to your provider before giving weight loss supplements or herbal remedies
to your child. Many claims made by these products are not true. Some
supplements can have serious side effects.

Weight loss drugs are not recommended for children.

Bariatric surgery is currently being performed for some children, but only
after they've stopped growing.

## Possible Complications

A child who is overweight or obese is more likely to be overweight or obese as
an adult. Obese children are now developing health problems that used to be
seen only in adults. When these problems begin in childhood, they often become
more severe when the child becomes an adult.

Children with obesity are at risk for developing these health problems:

    * High blood glucose (sugar) or diabetes.
    * High blood pressure (hypertension).
    * High blood cholesterol and triglycerides (dyslipidemia or high blood fats).
    * Heart attacks due to coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure, and stroke later in life.
    * Bone and joint problems -- more weight puts pressure on the bones and joints. This can lead to osteoarthritis, a disease that causes joint pain and stiffness.
    * Stopping breathing during sleep (sleep apnea). This can cause daytime fatigue or sleepiness, poor attention, and problems at work.

Obese girls are more likely not to have regular menstrual periods.

Obese children often have low self-esteem. They are more likely to be teased
or bullied, and they may have a hard time making friends.

## Alternative Names

Weight loss - children; Obese - children

## References

Daniels SR, Hassink SG; COMMITTEE ON NUTRITION. The role of the pediatrician
in primary prevention of obesity. _Pediatrics_. 2015;136(1):e275-e292. PMID:
26122812 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26122812.

Gahagan S. Overweight and obesity. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 47.

Hoelscher DM, Kirk S, Ritchie L, Cunningham-Sabo L; Academy Positions
Committee. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: interventions
for the prevention and treatment of pediatric overweight and obesity. _J Acad
Nutr Diet_. 2013;113(10):1375-1394. PMID 24054714
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24054714.

Kumar S, Kelly AS. Review of childhood obesity: from epidemiology, etiology,
and comorbidities to clinical assessment and treatment. _Mayo Clin Proc_.
2017;92(2):251-265. PMID: 28065514 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28065514.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Grossman DC, et al. Screening for obesity
in children and adolescents: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _JAMA_. 2017;317(23):2417-2426. PMID: 28632874
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28632874.

## Review Date 9/5/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Obesity in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ObesityinChildren_thumb.jpg)Obesity
in Children _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

