Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000377.htm    
                                Description: Diabetes insipidus (DI) is an uncommon condition in which the kidneys are unable to prevent the excretion of water.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes insipidus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000377.htm

# Diabetes insipidus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diabetes insipidus (DI) is an uncommon condition in which the kidneys are
unable to prevent the excretion of water.

DI is not the same as diabetes mellitus types 1 and 2. However, untreated,
both DI and diabetes mellitus cause constant thirst and frequent urination.
People with diabetes mellitus have high blood sugar (glucose) because the body
is not able to use blood sugar for energy. Those with DI have normal blood
sugar levels, but their kidneys are not able to balance fluid in the body.

## Causes

During the day, your kidneys filter all your blood many times. Normally, most
of the water is reabsorbed, and only a small amount of concentrated urine is
excreted. DI occurs when the kidneys cannot concentrate the urine normally,
and a large amount of dilute urine is excreted.

The amount of water excreted in the urine is controlled by antidiuretic
hormone (ADH). ADH is also called vasopressin. ADH is produced in a part of
the brain called the hypothalamus. It is then stored and released from the
pituitary gland. This is a small gland just below the base of the brain.

DI caused by a lack of ADH is called central diabetes insipidus. When DI is
caused by a failure of the kidneys to respond to ADH, the condition is called
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Nephrogenic means related to the kidney.

CentralÂ DIÂ can be caused by damage to the hypothalamus or pituitary gland as
a result of:

    * Genetic problems
    * Head injury
    * Infection
    * Problem with the ADH-producing cells due to an autoimmune disease  

    * Loss of blood supply to the pituitary gland
    * Surgery in the area of the pituitary gland or hypothalamus
    * Tumors in or near the pituitary gland

Nephrogenic DI involves a defect in the kidneys. As a result, the kidneys do
not respond to ADH. Like central DI, nephrogenic DI is very rare. Nephrogenic
DI may be caused by:

    * Certain medicines, such as lithium
    * Genetic problems
    * High level of calcium in the body (hypercalcemia)
    * Kidney disease, such as polycystic kidney disease

## Symptoms

Symptoms of DI include:

    * Excessive thirst that may be intense or uncontrollable, usually with the need to drink large amounts of water or craving for ice water
    * Excessive urine volume
    * Excessive urination, often needing to urinate every hour throughout the day and night 
    * Very dilute, pale urine

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your medical history and symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood sodium and osmolality
    * Desmopressin (DDAVP) challenge
    * MRI of the head
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine concentration and osmolality 
    * Urine output 

Your provider may have you see a doctor who specializes in pituitary diseases
to help diagnose DI.

## Treatment

The cause of the underlying condition will be treated when possible.

Central DI may be controlled with vasopressin (desmopressin, DDAVP). You take
vasopressin as an injection, a nasal spray, or tablets.

If nephrogenic DI is caused by medicine, stopping the medicine may help
restore normal kidney function. But after many years of use of some medicines,
such as lithium, nephrogenic DI can be permanent.

Hereditary nephrogenic DI and lithium-induced nephrogenic DI are treated by
drinking enough fluids to match urine output. Medicines that lower urine
output also need to be taken.

Nephrogenic DI is treated with anti-inflammatory medicines and diuretics
(water pills).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the underlying disorder. If treated, DI does not cause
severe problems or result in early death.

## Possible Complications

If your body's thirst control is normal and you are able to drink enough
fluids, there are no significant effects on body fluid or salt balance.

Not drinking enough fluids can lead to dehydration and electrolyte imbalance,
which can be very dangerous.

If DI is treated with vasopressin and your body's thirst control is not
normal, drinking more fluids than your body needs can also cause dangerous
electrolyte imbalance.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of DI.

If you have DI, contact your provider if frequent urination or extreme thirst
returns.

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Osmolality test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10013t.jpg)Osmolality test

## References

Hannon MJ, Thompson CJ. Vasopressin, diabetes insipidus, and the syndrome of
inappropriate antidiuresis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

Verbalis JG. Disorders of water balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Insipidus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesInsipidus_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Insipidus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

