Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003085.htm    
                                Description: Excessive thirst is an abnormal feeling of always needing to drink fluids.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thirst - excessive

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003085.htm

# Thirst - excessive

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Excessive thirst is an abnormal feeling of always needing to drink fluids.

## Considerations

Drinking lots of water is healthy in most cases. The urge to drink too much
may be the result of a physical or emotional disease. Excessive thirst may be
a symptom of high blood sugar (hyperglycemia), which may help in detecting
diabetes.

Excessive thirst is a common symptom. It is often the reaction to fluid loss
during exercise or to eating salty foods.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * A recent salty or spicy meal
    * Bleeding enough to cause a large decrease in blood volume
    * Diabetes mellitus
    * Diabetes insipidus
    * Medicines such as anticholinergics, demeclocycline, diuretics, phenothiazines
    * Loss of body fluids from the bloodstream into the tissues due to conditions such as severe infections (sepsis) or burns, or heart, liver, or kidney failure
    * Psychogenic polydipsia (a mental disorder)

## Home Care

Because thirst is the body's signal to replace water loss, it is most often
appropriate to drink plenty of liquids.

For thirst caused by diabetes, follow the prescribed treatment to properly
control your blood sugar level.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Excessive thirst is ongoing and unexplained.
    * Thirst is accompanied by other unexplained symptoms, such as blurry vision or fatigue.
    * You are passing more than 5 quarts (4.73 liters) of urine per day. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will get your medical history and perform a physical exam.

The provider may ask you questions such as:

    * How long have you been aware of having increased thirst? Did it develop suddenly or slowly?
    * Does your thirst stay the same all day?
    * Did you change your diet? Are you eating more salty or spicy foods?
    * Have you noticed an increased appetite?
    * Have you lost weight or gained weight without trying?
    * Has your activity level increased?
    * What other symptoms are happening at the same time?
    * Have you recently suffered a burn or other injury?
    * Are you urinating more or less frequently than usual? Are you producing more or less urine than usual? Have you noticed any bleeding?
    * Are you sweating more than usual?
    * Is there any swelling in your body?
    * Do you have a fever? 

Tests that may be ordered include the following:

    * Blood glucose level
    * CBC and white blood cell differential
    * Serum calcium
    * Serum osmolality
    * Serum sodium
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine osmolality

Your provider will recommend treatment if needed based on your exam and tests.
For example, if tests show you have diabetes, you will need to get treated.

A very strong, constant urge to drink may be the sign of a psychological
problem. You may need a psychological evaluation if the provider suspects this
is a cause. Your fluid intake and output will be closely watched.

## Alternative Names

Increased thirst; Polydipsia; Excessive thirst

## Images

    * ![Insulin production and diabetes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8888t.jpg)Insulin production and diabetes

## References

Mortada R. Diabetes insipidus. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:277-280.

Slotki I, Skorecki K. Disorders of sodium and water homeostasis. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

## Review Date 1/19/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dehydration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dehydration_thumb.jpg)Dehydration
_Read more_

![Diabetes
Insipidus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesInsipidus_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Insipidus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

