Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000511.htm    
                                Description: Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a disorder in which a defect in the small tubes (tubules) in the kidneys causes a person to pass a large amount of urine and lose too much water.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000511.htm

# Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a disorder in which a defect in the
small tubes (tubules) in the kidneys causes a person to pass a large amount of
urine and lose too much water.

## Causes

Normally, the kidney tubules allow most water in the blood to be filtered and
returned to the blood.

NDI occurs when the kidney tubules do not respond to aÂ hormone in the body
called antidiuretic hormone (ADH), also called vasopressin. ADH normally
prompts the kidneys to make the urine more concentrated.

As a result of the defect, the kidneys release too much water into the urine.
This causes the body to produce a large quantity of very dilute urine.

NDI is rare. Congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is present at birth. It
is a result of a defect passed down through families. Men are usually
affected, though women can pass this gene on to their children.

Most commonly, NDI develops because of other reasons. This is called an
acquired disorder. Factors that can trigger the acquired form of this
condition include:

    * Blockage in the urinary tract
    * High calcium levels
    * Low potassium levels
    * Use of certain drugs (lithium, demeclocycline, amphotericin B)

## Symptoms

You may have intense or uncontrollable thirst, and crave ice water.

You will produce large amounts of urine, usually more than 3 liters, and up to
15 liters per day. The urine is very dilute and looks almost like water. You
may need to urinate every hour or even more, even during the night when you
are not eating or drinking as much.

If you do not drink enough fluids, dehydration can result. Symptoms may
include:

    * Dry mucous membranes
    * Dry skin
    * Sunken appearance to eyes
    * Sunken fontanelles (soft spot) in infants 
    * Changes in memory or balance

Other symptoms that can occur due to lack of fluids, causing dehydration,
include:

    * Fatigue, feeling weak
    * Headache
    * Irritability
    * Low body temperature
    * Muscle pain
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Weight loss
    * A change in alertness, and even coma

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your or your child's
symptoms.

A physical exam may reveal:

    * Low blood pressure 
    * Rapid pulse 
    * Shock 
    * Signs of dehydration 

Tests may reveal:

    * High serum osmolality
    * High urine output, regardless of how much fluid you drink
    * Kidneys do not concentrate urine when you are given ADHÂ (usually a medication called desmopressin)
    * Low urine osmolality
    * Normal or high ADH levels 

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Sodium blood test
    * Urine 24-hour volume
    * Urine concentration test
    * Urine specific gravity

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control the body's fluid levels. A large amount of
fluids will be given. The amount should be about equal to the amount of water
being lost in the urine.

If the condition is due to a certain medicine, stopping the drug may improve
symptoms. But, do NOT stop taking any medicine without first talking to your
provider.

Medicines may be given to improve symptoms by reducing urine output.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If a person drinks enough water, this condition will not have much effect on
the fluid or electrolyte balance of the body. Sometimes, passing a lot of
urine for a long time can cause other electrolyte problems.

If the person does not drink enough fluids, high urine output may cause
dehydration and high levels of sodium in the blood.

NDI that is present at birth is a long-term condition requiring lifelong
treatment.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, NDI may cause any of the following:

    * Dilation of the ureters and bladder
    * High blood sodium (hypernatremia)
    * Severe dehydration
    * Shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Congenital NDI cannot be prevented.

Treating the disorders that can lead to the acquired form of the condition may
prevent it from developing in some cases.

## Alternative Names

Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus; Acquired nephrogenic diabetes insipidus;
Congenital diabetes insipidus; NDI

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Breault DT, Majzoub JA. Diabetes insipidus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 558.

Hannon MJ, Thompson CJ. Vasopressin, diabetes insipidus, and the syndrome of
inappropriate antidiuresis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Insipidus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesInsipidus_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Insipidus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

