Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003702.htm    
                                Description: Antidiuretic blood test measures the level of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) in blood.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antidiuretic hormone blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003702.htm

# Antidiuretic hormone blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Antidiuretic blood test measures the level of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) in
blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Talk to yourÂ health care providerÂ about your medicines before the test. Many
drugs can affect ADH level, including:

    * Alcohol
    * Diuretics (water pills)
    * Blood pressure medicines
    * Insulin
    * Medicines for mental disorders
    * Nicotine
    * Steroids 

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

ADH is a hormone that is produced in a part of the brain called the
hypothalamus. It is then stored and released from the pituitary, a small gland
at the base of the brain. ADH acts on the kidneys to control the amount of
water excreted in the urine.

ADH blood test is ordered when your provider suspects you have a disorder that
affects your ADH level such as:

    * Buildup of fluids in your body that are causing swelling or puffiness (edema)
    * Excessive amounts of urine
    * Low sodium (salt) level in your blood
    * Thirst that is intense or uncontrollable 

Certain diseases affect the normal release of ADH. The blood level of ADH must
be tested to determine the cause of the disease. ADH may be measured as part
of a water restriction test to find the cause of a disease.

## Normal Results

Normal values for ADH can range from 1 to 5 pg/mL (0.9 to 4.6 pmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal level may occur when too much ADH is released, either
from the brain where it is made, or from somewhere else in the body. This is
called syndrome of inappropriate ADH (SIADH).

Causes of SIADH include:

    * Brain injury or trauma
    * Brain tumors
    * Fluid imbalance after surgery
    * Infection in the brain or the tissue that surrounds the brain
    * Infection in the lungs
    * Certain medicines, such as some seizure drugs, pain medicines, and antidepressants
    * Small cell carcinoma lung cancer
    * Stroke

A higher-than-normal level of ADH may be found in people with heart failure,
liver failure, or some kinds of kidney disease.

A lower-than-normal level may indicate:

    * Damage to the hypothalamus or pituitary gland
    * Central diabetes insipidus (condition in which the kidneys are not able to conserve water)
    * Excessive thirst (polydipsia)
    * Too much fluid in the blood vessels (volume overload) 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Arginine vasopressin; Antidiuretic hormone; AVP; Vasopressin

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) - serum. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:146.

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Oh MS, Briefel G. Evaluation of renal function, water, electrolytes, and acid-
base balance. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis
and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Insipidus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesInsipidus_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Insipidus _Read more_

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

