Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000460.htm    
                                Description: Central diabetes insipidus is a rare condition that involves extreme thirst and excessive urination.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diabetes insipidus - central

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000460.htm

# Diabetes insipidus - central

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Central diabetes insipidus is a rare condition that involves extreme thirst
and excessive urination.

## Causes

Diabetes insipidus (DI) is an uncommon condition in which the kidneys are
unable to prevent the excretion of water. DI is a different disease than
diabetes, though both share common symptoms excessive urination and thirst.

Central diabetes insipidusÂ is a form of DI that occurs when the body has a
lower than normal amount of antidiuretic hormone (ADH). ADH is also called
vasopressin. ADH is produced in a part of the brain called the hypothalamus.
It is then stored and released from the pituitary gland. This is a small gland
at the base of the brain.

ADH controls the amount of water excreted in urine. Without ADH, the kidneys
do not work properly to keep enough water in the body. The result is a rapid
loss of water from the body in the form of dilute urine. This results in the
need to drink large amounts of water due to extreme thirst and to make up for
excessive water loss in the urine (10 to 15 liters a day).

The reduced level of ADH may be caused by damage to the hypothalamus or
pituitary gland. This damage may be due to surgery, infection, inflammation,
tumor, or injury to the brain.

In rare cases, centralÂ diabetes insipidusÂ is caused by a genetic problem.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of central diabetes insipidusÂ include:

    * Increased urine production 
    * Excessive thirst
    * Confusion and changes in alertness due to dehydration and higher than normal sodium level in the body, if the person is unable to drink 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your medical history and symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood sodium and osmolarity
    * Desmopressin (DDAVP) challenge
    * MRI of the head
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine concentration 
    * Urine output

## Treatment

The cause of the underlying condition will be treated.

Vasopressin (desmopressin, DDAVP) is given either as a nasal spray, tablets,
or injections. This controls urine output and fluid balance and prevents
dehydration.

In mild cases, drinking more water may be all that is needed. If the body's
thirst control is not working (for example, if the hypothalamus is damaged), a
prescription for a certain amount of water intake may also be needed to ensure
proper hydration.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the cause. If treated, central diabetes insipidusÂ usually
does not cause severe problems or result in early death.

## Possible Complications

Not drinking enough fluids can lead to dehydration and electrolyte imbalance.

When taking vasopressin and your body's thirst controlÂ is not normal,
drinking more fluids than your body needs can cause dangerous electrolyte
imbalance.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of central diabetes insipidus.

If you have central diabetes insipidus, contact your provider if frequent
urination or extreme thirst returns.

## Prevention

Many of the cases may not be preventable. Prompt treatment of infections,
tumors, and injuries may reduce risk.

## Alternative Names

Central diabetes insipidus; Neurogenic diabetes insipidus

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Brimioulle S. Diabetes insipidus. In: Vincent J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA,
Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 150.

Giustina A, Frara S, Spina A, Mortini P. The hypothalamus. In: Melmed S, ed.
_The Pituitary_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Moritz ML, Ayus JC. Diabetes insipidus and syndrome of inappropriate
antidiuretic hormone. In: Singh AK, Williams GH, eds. _Textbook of Nephro-
Endocrinology_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Insipidus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesInsipidus_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Insipidus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

