Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003608.htm    
                                Description: A urine concentration test measures the ability of the kidneys to conserve or excrete water.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine concentration test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003608.htm

# Urine concentration test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urine concentration test measures the ability of the kidneys to conserve or
excrete water.

## How the Test is Performed

For this test, the specific gravity of urine, urine electrolytes, and/or urine
osmolality are measured before and after one or more of the following:

    * Water loading. Drinking large amounts of water or receiving fluids through a vein.
    * Water deprivation. Not drinking fluids for a certain amount of time.
    * ADH administration. Receiving antidiuretic hormone (ADH), which should cause the urine to become concentrated. 

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested right away. For urine specific
gravity, the health care provider uses a dipstick made with a color-sensitive
pad. The dipstick color changes and tells the provider the specific gravity of
your urine. The dipstick test gives only a rough result. For a more accurate
specific gravity result or measurement of urine electrolytes or osmolality,
your provider will send your urine sample to a lab.

If needed, your provider will ask you to collect your urine at home over 24
hours. Your provider will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions
exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Eat a normal, balanced diet for several days before the test. Your provider
will give you instructions for water loading or water deprivation.

Your provider will ask you to temporarily stop any medicines that may affect
the test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the medicines you
take, including dextran and sucrose. DO NOT stop taking any medicine before
talking to your provider.

Also tell your provider if you recently received intravenous dye (contrast
medium) for an imaging test such as a CT or MRI scan. The dye can also affect
test results.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done if your doctor suspects central diabetes
insipidus. The test can help tell that disease from nephrogenic diabetes
insipidus.

This test may also be done if you have signs of syndrome of inappropriate ADH
(SIADH).

## Normal Results

In general, normal values for specific gravity are as follows:

    * 1.005 to 1.030 (normal specific gravity)
    * 1.001 after drinking excessive amounts of water
    * More than 1.030 after avoiding fluids
    * Concentrated after receiving ADH 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased urine concentration may be due to different conditions, such as:

    * Heart failure
    * Loss of body fluids (dehydration) from diarrhea or excessive sweating
    * Narrowing of the kidney artery (renal arterial stenosis)
    * Sugar, or glucose, in the urine 
    * Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)
    * Vomiting

Decreased urine concentration may indicate:

    * Diabetes insipidus
    * Drinking too much fluid
    * Kidney failure (loss of ability to reabsorb water)
    * Severe kidney infection (pyelonephritis)

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Water loading test; Water deprivation test

## Images

    * ![Urine concentration test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10012t.jpg)Urine concentration test
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Fogazzi GB, Garigali G. Urinalysis. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M,
Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetes
Insipidus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesInsipidus_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
Insipidus _Read more_

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

