Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/sodium-blood-test/    
                                Description: A sodium blood test measures the level of sodium in your blood. Abnormal sodium levels may indicate a kidney problem or other disorder. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Sodium Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/sodium-blood-test/

# Sodium Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a sodium blood test?

A sodium blood test measures the amount of sodium in your blood. Sodium is a
type of electrolyte. Electrolytes are electrically charged minerals that help
maintain fluid levels and the balance of chemicals in your body called acids
and bases. Sodium also helps your nerves and muscles work properly.

You get most of the sodium you need in your diet. Once your body takes in
enough sodium, the kidneys get rid of the rest in your urine. If your sodium
blood levels are too high or too low, it may mean that you have a problem with
your kidneys, dehydration, or another medical condition.

Other names: Na test

## What is it used for?

A sodium blood test may be part of a test called an electrolyte panel. An
electrolyte panel is a blood test that measures sodium, along with other
electrolytes, including potassium, chloride, and bicarbonate.

## Why do I need a sodium blood test?

Your health care provider may have ordered a sodium blood test as part of your
regular checkup or if you have symptoms of too much sodium (hypernatremia) or
too little sodium (hyponatremia) in your blood.

Symptoms of high sodium levels (hypernatremia) include:

    * Excess thirst
    * Infrequent urination
    * Vomiting
    * Diarrhea

Symptoms of low sodium levels (hyponatremia) include:

    * Weakness
    * Fatigue
    * Confusion
    * Muscle twitching

## What happens during a sodium blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a sodium blood test or an
electrolyte panel. If your health care provider has ordered more tests on your
blood sample, you may need to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before
the test. Your health care provider will let you know if there are any special
instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show higher than normal sodium levels, it may indicate:

    * Diarrhea
    * A disorder of the adrenal glands
    * A kidney disorder
    * Diabetes insipidus, a rare form of diabetes that happens when the kidneys pass an unusually high volume of urine.

If your results show lower than normal sodium levels, it may indicate:

    * Diarrhea
    * Vomiting
    * Kidney disease
    * Addison disease, a condition in which your body's adrenal glands don't produce enough of certain types of hormones
    * Cirrhosis, a condition that causes scarring of the liver and can damage liver function
    * Malnutrition
    * Heart failure

If your results are not in the normal range, it doesn't necessarily mean that
you have a medical condition needing treatment. Certain medicines can increase
or decrease your sodium levels. If you have questions about your results, talk
to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I should know about a sodium blood test?

Sodium levels are often measured with other electrolytes in another test
called the anion gap. An anion gap test looks at the difference between
negatively charged and positively charged electrolytes. The test checks for
acid imbalances and other conditions.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Sodium, Serum; p 467.
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Cirrhosis; [updated 2017 Jan 8; cited 2017 Jul 14]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/conditions/cirrhosis
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Electrolytes: Common Questions [updated 2015 Dec 2; cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/electrolytes/tab/faq
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Electrolytes: The Test [updated 2015 Dec 2; cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/electrolytes/tab/test
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Sodium: The Test [updated 2016 Jan 29; cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/sodium/tab/test
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Sodium: The Test Sample [updated 2016 Jan 29; cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/sodium/tab/sample
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Diseases and Conditions: Hyponatremia; 2014 May 28 [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hyponatremia/basics/causes/con-20031445
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Addison Disease [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/adrenal-gland-disorders/addison-disease
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Hypernatremia (High Level of Sodium in the Blood) [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/hypernatremia-high-level-of-sodium-in-the-blood
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Hyponatremia (Low Level of Sodium in the Blood) [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/hyponatremia-low-level-of-sodium-in-the-blood
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Overview of Electrolytes [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/overview-of-electrolytes
    12. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Overview of Sodium's Role in the Body [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/overview-of-sodium-s-role-in-the-body
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Types of Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 April 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/types
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    15. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    16. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Diabetes Insipidus; 2015 Oct [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/kidney-disease/diabetes-insipidus
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Sodium (Blood) [cited 2017 Apr 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=sodium_blood

## Related Health Topics

    * Dehydration
    * Fluid and Electrolyte Balance
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Sodium

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Anion Gap Blood Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

