Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000564.htm    
                                Description: Gaucher disease is a rare genetic disorder in which a person lacks an enzyme called glucocerebrosidase (GBA).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gaucher disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000564.htm

# Gaucher disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gaucher disease is a rare genetic disorder in which a person lacks an enzyme
called glucocerebrosidase (GBA).

## Causes

Gaucher disease is rare in the general population. People of Eastern and
Central European (Ashkenazi) Jewish heritage are more likely to have this
disease.

It is an autosomal recessive disease. This means that the mother and father
must both passÂ one abnormal copy of the disease gene to their child in order
for the child to develop the disease. A parent who carries an abnormal copy of
the gene but doesn't have the disease is called a silent carrier.

The lack of the GBA causes harmful substances to build up in the liver,
spleen, bones, and bone marrow. These substances prevent cells and organs from
working properly.

There are three main subtypes of Gaucher disease:

    * Type 1 is most common. It involves bone disease, anemia, an enlarged spleen and low platelets (thrombocytopenia). Type 1 affects both children and adults. It is most common in the Ashkenazi Jewish population.
    * Type 2 usually begins in infancy with severe neurologic involvement. This form can lead to rapid, early death.
    * Type 3 may cause liver, spleen, and brain problems.Â People with this typeÂ may live into adulthood. 

## Symptoms

Bleeding because of low platelet count is the most common symptom seen in
Gaucher disease. Other symptoms may include:

    * Bone pain and fractures
    * Cognitive impairment (decreased thinking ability)
    * Easy bruising
    * Enlarged spleen
    * Enlarged liver
    * Fatigue
    * Heart valve problems
    * Lung disease (rare)
    * Seizures
    * Severe swellingÂ at birth
    * Skin changes

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood test to look for enzyme activity
    * Bone marrow aspiration
    * Biopsy of the spleen
    * MRI
    * CT
    * X-ray of the skeleton
    * Genetic testing (karyotyping)

## Treatment

Gaucher disease can't be cured. But treatments can help control and may
improve symptoms.

Medicines may be given to:

    * Replace the missing GBA (enzyme replacement therapy) to help reduce spleen size, bone pain, and improve thrombocytopenia.
    * Limit production of fatty chemicals that build up in the body.

Other treatments include:

    * Medicines for pain
    * Surgery for bone and joint problems, or to remove the spleen
    * Blood transfusionsÂ 

## Support Groups

This groups can provide more information on Gaucher disease:

    * National Gaucher Foundation -- www.gaucherdisease.org
    * National Library of Medicine, Genetics Home Reference --Â ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/gaucher-disease
    * National Organization for Rare Diseases -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/gaucher-disease

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on their subtype of the disease. The infantile
form of Gaucher disease (Type 2) may lead to early death. Most affected
children die before age 5.

Adults with the type 1 form ofÂ Gaucher disease can expect normal life
expectancy with enzyme replacement therapy.

## Possible Complications

Complications of Gaucher disease may include:

    * Seizures
    * Anemia
    * Thrombocytopenia
    * Bone problems

## Prevention

Genetic counselingÂ is recommended for prospective parents with a family
history of Gaucher disease. Testing can determine if parents carry the gene
that could pass on the Gaucher disease. A prenatal test can also tell if a
baby in the womb has Gaucher syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Glucocerebrosidase deficiency; Glucosylceramidase deficiency; Lysosomal
storage disease - Gaucher

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
    * ![Gaucher cell - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1450t.jpg)Gaucher cell - photomicrograph
    * ![Gaucher cell - photomicrograph #2](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1451t.jpg)Gaucher cell - photomicrograph #2
    * ![Hepatosplenomegaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17215t.jpg)Hepatosplenomegaly

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Defects in metabolism of
lipids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 86.

Krasnewich DM, Sidransky E. Lysosomal storage diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 208.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Gaucher
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GaucherDisease_thumb.jpg)Gaucher
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

