Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001586.htm    
                                Description: Canavan disease is a fatal condition that affects how the body breaks down and usesÂ aspartic acid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Canavan disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001586.htm

# Canavan disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Canavan disease is a fatal condition that affects how the body breaks down and
usesÂ aspartic acid.

## Causes

Canavan disease is passed down (inherited) through families. It is more common
among the Ashkenazi Jewish population than in the general population.

The lack of the enzyme aspartoacylase leads to a buildup of material called
N-acetylaspartic acid in the brain. This causes the white matter of the brain
to break down.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often begin in the first year of life. Parents tend to notice it when
their child is not reaching certain developmental milestones, including head
control.

Symptoms include:

    * Abnormal posture with flexed arms and straight legs
    * Food material flows back into the nose
    * Feeding problems
    * Increasing head size
    * Irritability
    * Poor muscle tone, especially of the neck muscles
    * A lack of head control when baby is pulled from a lying to a sitting position
    * Poor visual tracking, or blindness
    * Reflux with vomiting
    * Seizures
    * Severe intellectual disability
    * Swallowing difficulties 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show:

    * Exaggerated reflexes
    * Joint stiffness
    * Loss of tissue in the optic nerve of the eye

Tests for this condition include:

    * Blood chemistry
    * CSF chemistry
    * Genetic testing for aspartoacylase gene mutations
    * Head CT scan
    * Head MRI scan
    * Urine or blood chemistry for elevated aspartic acid
    * DNA analysis  

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment available. Supportive care is very important to
ease the symptoms of the disease. Lithium and gene therapy are being studied.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on Canavan disease:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/canavan-disease
    * National Tay-Sachs & Allied Diseases Association -- www.ntsad.org/index.php/the-diseases/canavan

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With Canavan disease, the central nervous system breaks down. People are
likely to become disabled.

Death often occurs before 18 months of age. However, some people live until
they are teenagers or, in care cases, young adults.

## Possible Complications

This disorder nay cause severe disabilities such as:

    * Blindness
    * Inability to walk
    * Intellectual disability

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has any symptoms of Canavan
disease.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for people who want to have children and
have a family history of Canavan disease. Counseling should be considered if
both parents are of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. For this group, DNA testing can
almost always tell if the parents are carriers.

A diagnosis may be made before the baby is born (prenatal diagnosis) by
testing the amniotic fluid, the fluid that surrounds the womb.

## Alternative Names

Spongy degeneration of the brain; Aspartoacylase deficiency; Canavan - van
Bogaert disease

## References

Breen MA, Robertson RL. Brain imaging. In: Walters MM, Robertson RL, eds.
_Pediatric Radiology: The Requisites_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 8.

Elitt CM, Volpe JJ. Degenerative disorders of the newborn. In: Volpe JJ, Inder
TE, Darras BT, et al, eds. _Volpe's Neurology of the Newborn_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 29.

Matalon KM, Matalon RK. Defects in metabolism of amino acids: aspartic acid
(Canavan disease). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 85.

Vanderver A, Wolf NI. Genetic and metabolic disorders of the white matter. In:
Swaiman KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology:
Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 99.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Leukodystrophies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Leukodystrophies_thumb.jpg)Leukodystrophies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

