Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001182.htm    
                                Description: Adrenoleukodystrophy describes several closely related disorders that disrupt the breakdown of certain fats. These disorders are passed down (inherited) in families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adrenoleukodystrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001182.htm

# Adrenoleukodystrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adrenoleukodystrophy describes several closely related disorders that disrupt
the breakdown of certain fats. These disorders are passed down (inherited) in
families.

## Causes

Adrenoleukodystrophy is usually passed down from parent to child as an
X-linked genetic trait. It affects mostly males. Some women who are carriers
can have milder forms of the disease. It affects about 1 in 20,000 people from
all races.

The condition results in the buildup of very-long-chain fatty acids in the
nervous system, adrenal gland, and testes. This disrupts normal activity in
these parts of the body.

There are three major categories of disease:

    * Childhood cerebral form -- appears in mid-childhood (at ages 4 to 8)
    * Adrenomyelopathy -- occurs in men in their 20s or later in life
    * Impaired adrenal gland function (called Addison disease or Addison-like phenotype) -- adrenal gland does not produce enough steroid hormones

## Symptoms

Childhood cerebral type symptoms include:

    * Changes in muscle tone, especially muscle spasms and uncontrolled movements
    * Crossed eyes
    * Handwriting that gets worse
    * Difficulty at school
    * Difficulty understanding what people are saying
    * Hearing loss
    * Hyperactivity
    * Worsening nervous system damage, including coma, decreased fine motor control, and paralysisÂ 
    * Seizures
    * Swallowing difficulties
    * Visual impairment or blindness

Adrenomyelopathy symptoms include:

    * Difficulty controlling urination
    * Possible worsening muscle weakness or leg stiffness
    * Problems with thinking speed and visual memory

Adrenal gland failure (Addison type) symptoms include:

    * Coma
    * Decreased appetite
    * Increased skin color
    * Loss of weight andÂ muscle mass (wasting)
    * Muscle weakness
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Tests for this condition include:

    * Blood levels of very long chain fatty acids and hormones that are produced by the adrenal gland
    * Chromosome study to look for changes (mutations) in the _ABCD1_ gene
    * MRI of the head 
    * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

Adrenal dysfunction may be treated with steroids (such as cortisol) if the
adrenal gland is not producing enough hormones.

A specific treatment for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is not available. A
bone marrow transplant can cure a people of the condition.

Supportive care and careful monitoring of impaired adrenal gland function may
help in improving comfort and quality of life.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on adrenoleukodystrophy:

    * National Organization for Rare Disease Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/adrenoleukodystrophy
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/x-linked-adrenoleukodystrophy

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The childhood form of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is a progressive disease.
It leads to a long-term coma (vegetative state) about 2 years after nervous
system symptoms develop. The child can live in this condition for as long as
10 years until death occurs.

The other forms of this disease are milder.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Adrenal crisis
    * Vegetative state

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your child develops symptoms of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy
    * Your child has X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy and is getting worse

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended forÂ couples with a family history of
X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. Mothers of affected sons have an 85% chance of
being a carrier for this condition.

Prenatal diagnosis of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is also available. It is
done byÂ testing cells from chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis. These
tests lookÂ for either a known genetic change in the family or for very long
chain fatty acid levels.

## Alternative Names

X-linked Adrenoleukodystrophy; Adrenomyeloneuropathy; Childhood cerebral
adrenoleukodystrophy; ALD; Schilder-Addison Complex

## Images

    * ![Neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17277t.jpg)Neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy

## References

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Errors in metabolism. In: James WD, Berger TG,
Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 12th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Lissauer T, Carroll W. Neurological disorders. In: Lissauer T, Carroll W, eds.
_Illustrated Textbook of Paediatrics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 29.

Raymond GV. Disorders of very long chain fatty acids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 86.

Vanderver A, Wolf NI. Genetic and metabolic disorders of the white matter. In:
Swaiman KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 99.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Leukodystrophies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Leukodystrophies_thumb.jpg)Leukodystrophies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

