Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001205.htm    
                                Description: Metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is a genetic disorder that affects nerves, muscles, other organs, and behavior. It slowly gets worse over time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metachromatic leukodystrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001205.htm

# Metachromatic leukodystrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is a genetic disorder that affects nerves,
muscles, other organs, and behavior. It slowly gets worse over time.

## Causes

MLD is usually caused by the lack of an important enzyme called arylsulfatase
A (ARSA). Because this enzyme is missing, chemicals called sulfatides build up
in the body and damage the nervous system, kidneys, gallbladder, and other
organs. In particular, the chemicals damage the protective sheaths that
surround nerve cells.

The disease is passed down through families (inherited). You must get a copy
of the defective gene from both your parents to have the disease. Parents can
each have the defective gene, but not have MLD. A person with oneÂ defective
gene is called a "carrier."

Children who inherit only one defective gene from one parent will be a
carrier, but usually will not develop MLD. When two carriers have a child,
there is a 1 in 4 chance that the child will get both genes and have MLD.

There are three forms of MLD. The forms are based on when the symptoms begin:

    * Late infantile MLD symptoms usually begin by ages 1 to 2.
    * Juvenile MLD symptoms usually begin between ages 4 and 12.
    * Adult (and late-stage juvenile MLD) symptoms may occur between age 14 and adulthood (over age 16), but may begin as late as the 40s or 50s. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of MLD may include any of the following:

    * Abnormally high or decreased muscle tone, or abnormal muscle movements,Â any of which may cause problemsÂ walking or frequent falls
    * Behavior problems, personality changes, irritability
    * Decreased mental function
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Inability to perform normal tasks
    * Incontinence
    * Poor school performance
    * Seizures
    * Speech difficulties, slurring

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, focusing on the nervous
system symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood or skin culture to look for low arylsulfatase A activity
    * Blood test to look for low arylsulfatase A enzyme levels
    * DNA testing for the ARSA gene
    * MRIÂ of the brain
    * Nerve biopsy
    * Nerve signaling studies
    * Urinalysis

## Treatment

There is no cure for MLD. Care focuses on treating the symptoms and preserving
the person's quality of life with physical and occupational therapy.

Bone marrow transplant may be considered for infantile MLD.

Research is studying ways to replace the missing enzyme (arylsulfatase A).

## Support Groups

These groups can provide more information on MLD:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders --rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/metachromatic-leukodystrophy
    * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/metachromatic-leukodystrophy
    * United Leukodystrophy Association -- www.ulf.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

MLD is a severe disease that gets worse over time. Eventually, people lose all
muscle and mental function. Life span varies, depending on what age the
condition started, but the disease course usually runs 3 to 20 years or more.

People with this disorder are expected to have a shorter than normal lifespan.
The earlier the age at diagnosis, the more quickly the disease progresses.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended if you have a family history of this
disorder.

## Alternative Names

MLD; Arylsulfatase A deficiency; Leukodystrophy - metachromatic; ARSA
deficiency

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Kwon JM. Neurodegenerative disorders of childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 599.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Leukodystrophies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Leukodystrophies_thumb.jpg)Leukodystrophies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

