Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003636.htm    
                                Description: Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase is a blood test that measures the level of a substance called GALT, which helps break down milk sugars in your body. A low level of this substance causes a condition    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003636.htm

# Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase is a blood test that measures the
level of a substance called GALT, which helps break down milk sugars in your
body. A low level of this substance causes a condition called galactosemia.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some infants feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be slight bruising.
This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This is a screening test for galactosemia.

In normal diets, most galactose comes from the breakdown (metabolism) of
lactose, which is found in milk and dairy products. One out of 65,000 newborns
lack a substance (enzyme) called GALT. Without this substance, the body cannot
break down galactose, and the substance builds up in the blood. Continued use
of milk products can lead to:

    * Clouding of the lens of the eye (cataracts)
    * Scarring of the liver (cirrhosis)
    * Failure to thrive
    * Yellow color of the skin or eyes (jaundice)
    * Liver enlargement
    * Intellectual disability

This can be a serious condition if not treated.

Every state in the United States requires newborn screening tests to check for
this disorder.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 18.5 to 28.5 U/g Hb (units per gram of hemoglobin).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result suggests galactosemia. Further tests must be done to
confirm the diagnosis.

If your child has galactosemia, a genetics specialist should be consulted
promptly. The child should be put on a no-milk diet right away. This means no
breast milk and no animal milk. Soy milk and infant soy formulas are generally
used as substitutes.

This test is very sensitive, so it does not miss many infants with
galactosemia. But, false-positives can occur. If your child has an abnormal
screening result, follow-up tests must be done to confirm the result.

## Risks

There is little risk in taking blood from an infant. Veins and arteries vary
in size from one infant to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Obtaining a blood sample from some infants may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin, causing bruising)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Galactosemia screen; GALT; Gal-1-PUT

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Galactose-1-phosphateÂ - blood. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:550.

Patterson MC. Diseases associated with primary abnormalities in carbohydrate
metabolism. In: Swaiman K, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's
Pediatric Neurology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

