Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000366.htm    
                                Description: Galactosemia is a condition in which the body is unable to use (metabolize) the simple sugar galactose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Galactosemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000366.htm

# Galactosemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Galactosemia is a condition in which the body is unable to use (metabolize)
the simple sugar galactose.

## Causes

Galactosemia is an inherited disorder. This means it is passed down through
families. If both parents carry a nonworking copy of the gene that can cause
galactosemia, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) chance of being
affected with it.

There are 3 forms of the disease:

    * Galactose-1 phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT) deficiency: Classic galactosemia, the most common and most severe form
    * Deficiency of galactose kinase (GALK)
    * Deficiency of galactose-6-phosphate epimerase (GALE)

People with galactosemia are unable to fully break down the simple sugar
galactose. Galactose makes up one half of lactose, the sugar found in milk.

If an infant with galactosemia is given milk, substances made from galactose
build up in the infant's system. These substances damage the liver, brain,
kidneys, and eyes.

People with galactosemia cannot tolerate any form of milk (human or animal).
They must be careful about eating other foods containing galactose.

## Symptoms

Infants with galactosemia canÂ show symptoms in the first few days of life if
they eat formula or breast milk that contains lactose. The symptoms may be due
to a serious blood infection with the bacteria _E coli_.

Symptoms of galactosemia are:

    * Convulsions
    * Irritability
    * Lethargy
    * Poor feeding -- baby refuses to eat formula containing milk
    * Poor weight gain
    * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Tests to check for galactosemia include:

    * Blood culture for bacterial infection ( _E coli sepsis_ )
    * Enzyme activity in the red blood cells
    * Ketones in the urine
    * Prenatal diagnosis by directly measuring the enzyme galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase
    * "Reducing substances" in the infant's urine, and normal or low blood sugar while the infant is being fed breast milk or a formula containing lactose

Newborn screening tests in many states check for galactosemia.

Test results may show:

    * Amino acids in the urine or blood plasma
    * Enlarged liver
    * Fluid in the abdomen
    * Low blood sugar

## Treatment

People with this condition must avoid all milk, products that contain milk
(including dry milk), and other foods that contain galactose, for life. Read
product labels to make sure you or your child with the condition are not
eating foods that contain galactose.

Infants can be fed:

    * Soy formula
    * Another lactose-free formula
    * Meat-based formula or Nutramigen (a protein hydrolysate formula)

Calcium supplements are recommended.

## Support Groups

Galactosemia Foundation -- www.galactosemia.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who are diagnosed early and strictly avoid milk products can live a
relatively normal life. However, mild mental impairment may develop, even in
people who avoid galactose.

## Possible Complications

These complications can develop:

    * Cataracts
    * Cirrhosis of the liver
    * Delayed speech development
    * Irregular menstrual periods, reduced function of ovaries leading to ovarian failure and infertility
    * Mental disability
    * Severe infection with bacteria ( _E coli sepsis_ )
    * Tremors (shaking) and uncontrollable motor functions
    * Death (if there is galactose in the diet)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your infant has galactosemia symptoms
    * You have a family history of galactosemia and are considering having children

## Prevention

It is helpful to know your family history. If you have a family history of
galactosemia and want to have children, genetic counseling will help you make
decisions about pregnancy and prenatal testing. Once the diagnosis of
galactosemia is made, genetic counseling is recommended for other members of
the family.

Many states screen all newborns for galactosemia. If the newborn test shows
possible galactosemia, they should stop giving their infant milk products
right away and ask their provider about having blood tests that can be done to
confirm a diagnosis of galactosemia.

## Alternative Names

Galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase deficiency; Galactokinase deficiency;
Galactose-6-phosphate epimerase deficiency; GALT; GALK; GALE; Epimerase
deficiency galactosemia; GALE deficiency; Galactosemia type III; UDP-
galactose-4; Duarte variant

## Images

    * ![Galactosemia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17187t.jpg)Galactosemia

## References

Berry GT. Classic galactosemia and clinical variant galactosemia. 2000 Feb 4
[Updated 2017 Mar 9]. In: Adam MP, Ardinger HH, Pagon RA, et al, eds.
_GeneReviews_ [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle;
1993-2019. PMID: 20301691 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301691.

Bonnardeaux A, Bichet DG. Inherited disorders of the renal tubule. In:
Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

Broomfield A, Brain C, Grunewald S. Galactosaemia: diagnosis, management and
long-term outcome. _Paediatrics and Child Health_. 2015:25(3);113-118.
www.paediatricsandchildhealthjournal.co.uk/article/S1751-7222(14)00279-0/pdf.

Gibson KM, Pearl PL. Inborn errors of metabolism and the nervous system. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 91.

Kishnani PS, Chen Y-T. Defects in metabolism of carbohydrates. In: Kliegman
RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook
of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 105.

Maitra A. Diseases of infancy and childhood. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC,
eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

