Link: https://medlineplus.gov/sodium.html    
                                Description: Did you know that most Americans get more sodium than they need? Read about what you can do to manage your sodium intake    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Sodium

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/sodium.html

#  Sodium

Also called: Salt

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Table salt is a combination of two minerals \- sodium and chloride Your body
needs some sodium to work properly. It helps with the function of nerves and
muscles. It also helps to keep the right balance of fluids in your body. Your
kidneys control how much sodium is in your body. If you have too much and your
kidneys can't get rid it, sodium builds up in your blood. This can lead to
high blood pressure. High blood pressure can lead to other health problems.

Most people in the U.S. get more sodium in their diets than they need. A key
to healthy eating is choosing foods low in sodium. The Dietary Guidelines
recommend that most adults eat less than 2.3 grams per day. That equals about
1 teaspoon of table salt a day. Some people are more sensitive to the effects
of salt than others and should eat less. This includes people who have high
blood pressure, diabetes, or kidney problems, or are African-American or over
age 50. Reading food labels can help you see how much sodium is in prepared
foods.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Lowering Salt in Your Diet (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Sodium and Food Sources (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Sodium: How to Tame Your Salt Habit (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Sodium Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Central Pontine Myelinolysis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Salty Stuff: Salt, Blood Pressure, and Your Health (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Sea Salt vs. Table Salt: What's the Difference? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Shifting the Balance of Sodium and Potassium in Your Diet (Harvard School of Public Health)

## Specifics

    * Hyponatremia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * CDC Vital Signs: Where's the Sodium? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dietary Sodium ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hyponatremia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Effect of dose and duration of reduction in dietary sodium on...
    * Article: A pilot study on efficacy and safety of a new salt...
    * Article: The association of parents' behaviors related to salt with 24 h...
    * Sodium -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion
    * Food and Drug Administration
    * Food and Nutrition Information Center
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * CDC Vital Signs: Reducing Sodium in Children's Diets (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Low Blood Sodium in Older Adults: A Concern? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cooking without salt (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Low sodium level (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Low-salt diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sodium blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sodium in diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Sodium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Salt2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cooking without salt
    * Low sodium level
    * Low-salt diet
    * Sodium blood test
    * Sodium in diet
    * Sodium urine test

## Related Health Topics

    * Fluid and Electrolyte Balance
    * High Blood Pressure
    * Minerals
    * Nutrition

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Sodium is the NIH Office of
Dietary Supplements

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Sodium_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 18 October 2019 Topic last reviewed: 2 April 2015

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

