Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001210.htm    
                                Description: Mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPS III) is a rare disease in which the body is missing or does not have enough of certain enzymes needed to break down long chains of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mucopolysaccharidosis type III

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001210.htm

# Mucopolysaccharidosis type III

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPS III) is a rare disease in which the body
is missing or does not have enough of certain enzymes needed to break down
long chains of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules are called
glycosaminoglycans (formerly called mucopolysaccharides). As a result, the
molecules build up in different parts of the body and cause various health
problems.

The condition belongs to a group of diseases called mucopolysaccharidoses
(MPSs). MPS II is also known as Sanfilippo syndrome.

There are several other types of MPSs, including:

    * MPS I (Hurler syndrome; Hurler-Scheie syndrome; Scheie syndrome)
    * MPS II (Hunter syndrome)
    * MPS IV (Morquio syndrome)

## Causes

MPS III is an inherited disorder. This means it is passed down through
families. If both parents carry a nonworking copy of a gene related to this
condition, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) chance of developing the
disease. This is called an autosomal recessive trait.

MPS III occurs when the enzymes needed to break down the heparan sulfate sugar
chain are missing or defective.

There are four main types of MPS III. The type a person has depends on which
enzyme is affected.

    * Type A is caused by a defect in the _SGSH_ gene and is the most severe form. People with this type do not have a normal form of the enzyme called heparan _N_ -sulfatase.
    * Type B is caused by a defect in the _NAGLU_ gene. People with this type are missing or do not produce enough alpha- _N_ -acetylglucosaminidase.
    * Type C is caused by a defect in the _HGSNAT_ gene. People with this type are missing or do not produce enough acetyl-CoA:alpha-glucosaminide N-acetyltransferase.
    * Type D is caused by a defect in the _GNS_ gene. People with this type are missing or do not produce enough _N_ -acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms often appear after the first year of life. A decline in learning
ability typically occurs between ages 2 and 6. The child may have normal
growth during the first few years, but final height is below average. Delayed
development is followed by worsening mental status.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Behavioral problems, including hyperactivity
    * Coarse facial features with heavy eyebrows that meet in the middle of the face above the nose
    * Chronic diarrhea
    * Enlarged liver and spleen
    * Sleep difficulties
    * Stiff joints that may not extend fully
    * Vision problems and hearing loss
    * Walking problems 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam.

Urine tests will be done. People with MPS III have a large amount of a
mucopolysaccharide called heparan sulfate in the urine.

Other tests may include:

    * Blood culture
    * Echocardiogram
    * Genetic testing
    * Slit lamp eye exam
    * Skin fibroblast culture
    * X-rays of the bones 

## Treatment

Treatment of MPS III is aimed at managing the symptoms. There is no specific
treatment for this disease.

## Support Groups

For more information and support, contact one of the following organizations:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders --rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-iii
    * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-iii
    * Team Sanfilippo Foundation -- teamsanfilippo.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

MPS III causes significant nervous system symptoms, including severe
intellectual disability. Most people with MPS III live into their teenage
years. Some live longer, while others with severe forms die at an earlier age.
Symptoms are most severe in people with type A.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Blindness
    * Inability to care for self
    * Intellectual disability
    * Nerve damage that slowly gets worse and eventually requires wheelchair use
    * Seizures 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if your child does not seem to be growing or
developing normally.

See your provider if you plan to have children and you have a family history
of MPS III.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for couples who want to have children and
who have a family history of MPS III. Prenatal testing is available.

## Alternative Names

MPS III; Sanfilippo syndrome; MPS IIIA; MPS IIIB; MPS IIIC; MPS IIID;
Lysosomal storage disease - mucopolysaccharidosis type III

## References

Pyeritz RE. Inherited diseases of connective tissue. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 260.

Spranger JW. Mucopolysaccharidoses. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 107.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

