Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001203.htm    
                                Description: Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II) is a rare disease in which the body is missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mucopolysaccharidosis type II

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001203.htm

# Mucopolysaccharidosis type II

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II) is a rare disease in which the body is
missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains
of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules are called glycosaminoglycans
(formerly called mucopolysaccharides). As a result, the molecules build up in
different parts of the body and cause various health problems.

The condition belongs to a group of diseases called mucopolysaccharidoses
(MPSs). MPS II is also known as Hunter syndrome.

There are several other types of MPSs, including:

    * MPS I (Hurler syndrome; Hurler-Scheie syndrome; Scheie syndrome)
    * MPS III (Sanfilippo syndrome)
    * MPS IV (Morquio syndrome) 

## Causes

MPS II is an inherited disorder. This means it is passed down through
families. The affected gene is on the X chromosome. Boys are most often
affected because they inherit the X chromosome from their mothers. Their
mothers do not have symptoms of the disease, but they carry a nonworking copy
of the gene.

MPS II is caused by a lack of the enzyme iduronate sulfatase. Without this
enzyme, chains of sugar molecules build up in various body tissues, causing
damage.

The early-onset, severe form of the disease begins shortly after age 2. A
late-onset, mild form causes less severe symptoms to appear later in life.

## Symptoms

In the early-onset, severe form, symptoms include:

    * Aggressive behavior
    * Hyperactivity
    * Mental function gets worse over time
    * Severe intellectual disability
    * Jerky body movements 

In the late (mild) form, there can be mild to no mental deficiency.

In both forms, symptoms include:

    * Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Coarse features of the face
    * Deafness (gets worse over time)
    * Increased hair growth 
    * Joint stiffness
    * Large head

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam and tests may show:

    * Abnormal retina (back of the eye)
    * Decreased iduronate sulfatase enzyme in blood serum or cells
    * Heart murmur and leaky heart valves
    * Enlarged liver
    * Enlarged spleen
    * Hernia in the groin
    * Joint contractures (from joint stiffness)

Tests may include:

    * Enzyme study
    * Genetic testing for a change in the iduronate sulfatase gene
    * Urine test for heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate 

## Treatment

The medicine called idursulfase (Elaprase), which replaces the enzyme
iduronate sulfatase may be recommended. It is given through a vein (IV,
intravenously). Talk to your health care provider for more information.

Bone marrow transplant has been tried for the early-onset form, but the
results can vary.

Each health problem caused by this disease should be treated separately.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information about MPS II:

    * National MPS Society -- mpssociety.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-ii-2
    * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/6675/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-ii

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with the early-onset (severe) form usually live for 10 to 20 years.
People with the late-onset (mild) form usually live 20 to 60 years.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Airway obstruction
    * Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Hearing loss that gets worse over time
    * Loss of ability to complete daily living activities
    * Joint stiffness that leads to contractures
    * Mental function that gets worse over time 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You or your child has a group of these symptoms
    * You know you are a genetic carrier and are considering having children 

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for couples who want to have children and
who have a family history of MPS II. Prenatal testing is available. Carrier
testing for female relatives of affected males is also available.

## Alternative Names

MPS II; Hunter syndrome; Lysosomal storage disease - mucopolysaccharidosis
type II; Iduronate 2-sulfatase deficiency; I2S deficiency

## References

Pyeritz RE. Inherited diseases of connective tissue. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 260.

Spranger JW. Mucopolysaccharidoses. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 107.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

