Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000329.htm    
                                Description: Type V glycogen storage disease (GSD V) is a rare inherited condition in which the body is not able to break down glycogen. Glycogen is an important source of energy that is stored in all tissues, especially    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Type V glycogen storage disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000329.htm

# Type V glycogen storage disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Type V glycogen storage disease (GSD V) is a rare inherited condition in which
the body is not able to break down glycogen. Glycogen is an important source
of energy that is stored in all tissues, especially in the muscles and liver.

GSD V is also called McArdle disease.

## Causes

GSD V is caused by a flaw in the gene that makes an enzyme called glycogen
phosphorylase. As a result, the body cannot break down glycogen in the
muscles.

GSD V is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. This means that you must
receive a copy of the nonworking gene from both parents. A person who receives
a nonworking gene from only one parent usually does not develop this syndrome.
A family history of GSD V increases the risk.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually start during early childhood. But, it may be difficult to
separate these symptoms from those of normal childhood. Diagnosis may not
occur until a person is over 20 or 30 years old.

    * Burgundy-colored urine (myoglobinuria)
    * Fatigue
    * Exercise intolerance, poor stamina
    * Muscle cramps
    * Muscle pain
    * Muscle stiffness
    * Muscle weakness

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be performed:

    * Electromyography (EMG)
    * Genetic testing
    * Lactic acid in blood
    * MRI
    * Muscle biopsy
    * Myoglobin in urine
    * Plasma ammonia
    * Serum creatine kinase

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment.

The health care provider may suggest the following to stay active and healthy
and prevent symptoms:

    * Be aware of your physical limitations.
    * Before exercising, warm up gently.
    * Avoid exercising too hard or too long.
    * Eat enough protein.

Ask your provider if it's a good idea to eat some sugar before exercising.
This may help prevent muscle symptoms.

If you need to have surgery, ask your provider if it's OK for you to have
general anesthesia.

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information and resources:

    * Association for Glycogen Storage Disease -- www.agsdus.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disease Disorders -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/6528/glycogen-storage-disease-type-5

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with GSD V can live a normal life by managing their diet and physical
activity.

## Possible Complications

Exercise may produce muscle pain, or even a breakdown of skeletal muscle
(rhabdomyolysis). This condition is associated with burgundy-colored urine and
a risk for kidney failure, if it is severe.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have repeated episodes of sore or cramped muscles
after exercise, especially if you also have burgundy or pink urine.

Consider genetic counseling if you have a family history of GSD V.

## Alternative Names

Myophosphorylase deficiency; Muscle glycogen phosphorylase deficiency; PYGM
deficiency

## References

Akman HO, Oldfors A, DiMauro S. Glycogen storage diseases of muscle. In:
Darras BT, Jones HR, Ryan MM, De Vivo DC, eds. _Neuromuscular Disorders of
Infancy, Childhood, and Adolescence_. 2nd ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier Academic
Press; 2015:chap 39.

Kishnani PS, Chen Y-T. Defects in metabolism of carbohydrates. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 87.

Weinstein DA. Glycogen storage diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 207.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

