Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001246.htm    
                                Description: Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs) are a group of rare diseases in which the body is missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mucopolysaccharidoses

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001246.htm

# Mucopolysaccharidoses

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs) are a group of rare diseases in which the body is
missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains
of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules are called glycosaminoglycans
(formerly called mucopolysaccharides). As a result, the molecules build up in
different parts of the body and cause various health problems. There are
several other types of MPSs, including:

    * MPS I (Hurler syndrome; Hurler-Scheie syndrome; Scheie syndrome)
    * MPS II (Hunter syndrome)
    * MPS III (Sanfilippo syndrome)
    * MPS IV (Morquio syndrome) 

## Alternative Names

MPS; Lysosomal storage disease - mucopolysaccharidosis

## References

Pyeritz RE. Inherited diseases of connective tissue. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 260.

Spranger JW. Mucopolysaccharidoses. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 107.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

