Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003368.htm    
                                Description: Acid mucopolysaccharides is a test that measures the amount of mucopolysaccharides released into the urine eitherÂ duringÂ one episode or over a 24-hour period.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acid mucopolysaccharides

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003368.htm

# Acid mucopolysaccharides

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acid mucopolysaccharides is a test that measures the amount of
mucopolysaccharides released into the urine eitherÂ duringÂ one episode or
over a 24-hour period.

Mucopolysaccharides are long chains of sugar molecules in the body. They are
often found in mucus and in fluid around the joints.

## How the Test is Performed

For the 24-hour test, you must urinate into a special bag or container every
time you use the bathroom. Most often, you will be given two containers. You
will urinate directly into the smaller special container and then transfer
that urine into the other larger container.

    * On day 1, urinate into the toilet when you wake up in the morning.
    * After the first urination, urinate into the special container every time you use the bathroom for the next 24 hours. Transfer the urine into the larger container and keep the larger container in a cool place or in a refrigerator. Keep this container tightly capped.
    * On day 2, urinate into the container in the morning again when you wake up and transfer this urine to the larger container.
    * Label the larger container with your name, the date, the time of completion, and return it as instructed. 

For an infant:

Thoroughly wash the area around the urethra (the hole where urine flows out).
Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).

    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive paper to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the two folds of skin on either side of the vagina (labia). Put a diaper on the baby (over the bag). 

Check the infant often, and change the bag after the infant has urinated.
Empty the urine from the bag into the container provided by your health care
provider.

Active babies can move the bag, causing the urine to go into the diaper. You
may need extra collection bags.

When finished, label the container and return it as you have been told.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation needed.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to diagnose a rare group of genetic disorders called
mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS). These include, Hurler, Scheie, and Hurler/Scheie
syndromes (MPS I), Hunter syndrome (MPS II), Sanfilippo syndrome (MPS III),
Morquio syndrome (MPS IV), Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome (MPS VI), and Sly syndrome
(MPS VII).

Most of the time, this test is done in infants who may have a symptom or
family history of one of these disorders.

## Normal Results

Normal levels vary with age and from lab to lab. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormally high levels could be consistent with a type of
mucopolysaccharidosis. Further tests are needed to determine the specific type
of mucopolysaccharidosis.

## Alternative Names

AMP; Dermatan sulfate - urine; Urine heparan sulfate; Urine dermatan sulfate;
Heparan sulfate - urine

## References

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Genetic disorders. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster
JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 5.

Spranger JW. Mucopolysaccharidoses. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 107.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emergy's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/19/2019

Updated by: Frank A. Greco, MD, PhD, Director, Biophysical Laboratory, Edith
Nourse Rogers Memorial Hospital, Bedford, MA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

