Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001204.htm    
                                Description: Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is a rare disease in which the body is missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mucopolysaccharidosis type I

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001204.htm

# Mucopolysaccharidosis type I

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is a rare disease in which the body is
missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains
of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules are called glycosaminoglycans
(formerly called mucopolysaccharides). As a result, the molecules build up in
different parts of the body and cause various health problems.

The condition belongs to a group of diseases called mucopolysaccharidoses
(MPSs). MPS I is the most common.

There are several other types of MPSs, including:

    * MPS II (Hunter syndrome)
    * MPS III (Sanfilippo syndrome)
    * MPS IV (Morquio syndrome)

## Causes

MPS I is inherited, which means that your parents must pass the disease on to
you. If both parents carry a nonworking copy of the gene related to this
condition, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) chance of developing the
disease.

People with MPS I do not make an enzyme called lysosomal alpha-L-iduronidase.
This enzyme helps break down long chains of sugar molecules called
glycosaminoglycans. These molecules are found throughout the body, often in
mucus and in fluid around the joints.

Without the enzyme, glycosaminoglycans build up and damage organs, including
the heart. Symptoms can range from mild to severe. The mild form is called
attenuated MPS I and the severe form is called severe MPS I.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of MPS I most often appear between ages 3 to 8. Children with severe
MPS I develop symptoms earlier than those with the less severe form.

Some of the symptoms include:

    * Abnormal bones in the spine
    * Inability to fully open the fingers (claw hand)
    * Cloudy corneas
    * Deafness
    * Halted growth
    * Heart valve problems
    * Joint disease, including stiffness
    * Intellectual disability that gets worse over time in severe MPS I
    * Thick, coarse facial features with low nasal bridge

## Exams and Tests

In some states, babies are tested for MPS I as part of the newborn screening
tests.

Other tests that may be done depending on symptoms, include:

    * ECG
    * Genetic testing for changes to the alpha-L-iduronidase (IDUA) gene
    * Urine tests for extra mucopolysaccharides
    * X-ray of the spine 

## Treatment

Enzyme replacement therapy may be recommended. The medicine, called laronidase
(Aldurazyme), is given through a vein (IV, intravenously). It replaces the
missing enzyme. Talk to your child's provider for more information.

Bone marrow transplant has been tried. The treatment has had mixed results.

Other treatments depend on the organs that are affected.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information about MPS I:

    * National MPS Society -- mpssociety.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-i
    * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/10335/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-i

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with severe MPS I usually do not do well. Their health problems
worsen over time, resulting in death by age 10.

Children with attenuated (milder) MPS I have fewer health problems, with many
leading fairly normal lives into adulthood.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have a family history of MPS I and are considering having children
    * Your child begins to show symptoms of MPS I

## Prevention

Experts recommend genetic counseling and testing for couples with a family
history of MPS I who are considering having children. Prenatal testing is
available.

## Alternative Names

Alpha-L-iduronate deficiency; Mucopolysaccharidosis type I; Severe MPS I;
Attenuated MPS I; MPS I H; MPS I S; Hurler syndrome; Scheie syndrome; Hurler-
Scheie syndrome; MPS 1 H/S; Lysosomal storage disease - mucopolysaccharidosis
type I

## Images

    * ![Low nasal bridge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17243t.jpg)Low nasal bridge

## References

Pyeritz RE. Inherited diseases of connective tissue. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 260.

Spranger JW. Mucopolysaccharidoses. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 107.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

