Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001206.htm    
                                Description: Mucopolysaccharidosis type IV (MPS IV) is a rare disease in which the body is missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mucopolysaccharidosis type IV

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001206.htm

# Mucopolysaccharidosis type IV

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type IV (MPS IV) is a rare disease in which the body is
missing or does not have enough of an enzyme needed to break down long chains
of sugar molecules. These chains of molecules are called glycosaminoglycans
(formerly called mucopolysaccharides). As a result, the molecules build up in
different parts of the body and cause various health problems.

The condition belongs to a group of diseases called mucopolysaccharidoses
(MPSs). MPS IV is also known as Morquio syndrome.

There are several other types of MPSs, including:

    * MPS I (Hurler syndrome; Hurler-Scheie syndrome; Scheie syndrome)
    * MPS II (Hunter syndrome)
    * MPS III (Sanfilippo syndrome)

## Causes

MPS IV is an inherited disorder. This means it is passed down through
families. If both parents carry a nonworking copy of a gene related to this
condition, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) chance of developing the
disease. This is called an autosomal recessive trait.

There are two forms of MPS IV: type A and type B.

    * Type A is caused by a defect in the _GALNS_ gene. People with type A do not have an enzyme called _N_ -acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase.
    * Type B is caused by a defect in the _GLB1_ gene. People with type B do not produce enough of an enzyme called beta-galactosidase.

The body needs these enzymes to break down long strands of sugar molecules
called keratan sulfate. In both types, abnormally large amounts of
glycosaminoglycans build up in the body. This can damage organs.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually start between ages 1 and 3. They include:

    * Abnormal development of bones, including the spine
    * Bell-shaped chest with ribs flared out at the bottom
    * Cloudy cornea
    * Coarse facial features
    * Enlarged liver
    * Heart murmur
    * Hernia in the groin
    * Hypermobile joints
    * Knock-knees
    * Large head
    * Loss of nerve function below the neck
    * Short stature with a particularly short trunk
    * Widely spaced teeth

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination to check for
symptoms that include:

    * Abnormal curvature of the spine
    * Cloudy cornea
    * Heart murmur
    * Hernia in the groin
    * Enlarged liver
    * Loss of nerve function below the neck
    * Short stature (especially short trunk) 

Urine tests are usually done first. These tests may show extra
mucopolysaccharides, but they can't determine the specific form of MPS.

Other tests may include:

    * Blood culture
    * Echocardiogram
    * Genetic testing
    * Hearing test
    * Slit-lamp eye exam
    * Skin fibroblast culture
    * X-rays of the long bones, ribs, and spine
    * MRI of the lower skull and upper neck 

## Treatment

For type A, the medicine called elosulfase alfa (Vimizim), which replaces the
missing enzyme, may be tried. It is given through a vein (IV, intravenously).
Talk to your provider for more information.

Enzyme replacement therapy is not available for type B.

For both types, symptoms are treated as they occur. A spinal fusion may
prevent permanent spinal cord injury in people whose neck bones are
underdeveloped.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information about MPS IV:

    * National MPS Society -- mpssociety.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/morquio-syndrome
    * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/mucopolysaccharidosis-type-iv

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cognitive function (ability to think clearly) is usually normal in people with
MPS IV.

Bone problems can lead to major health problems. For example, the small bones
at the top of the neck may slip and damage the spinal cord, causing paralysis.
Surgery to correct such problems should be done if possible.

Heart problems may lead to death.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Breathing problems
    * Heart failure
    * Spinal cord damage and possible paralysis
    * Vision problems
    * Walking problems related to abnormal curvature of the spine and other bone problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of MPS IV occur.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for couples who want to have children and
who have a family history of MPS IV. Prenatal testing is available.

## Alternative Names

MPS IV; Morquio syndrome; Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA; MPS IVA;
Galactosamine-6-sulfatase deficiency; Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVB; MPS IVB;
Beta galactosidase deficiency; Lysosomal storage disease -
mucopolysaccharidosis type IV

## References

Pyeritz RE. Inherited diseases of connective tissue. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 260.

Spranger JW. Mucopolysaccharidoses. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 107.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

