Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000338.htm    
                                Description: Von Gierke disease is a condition in which the body cannot break down glycogen. Glycogen is a form of sugar (glucose) that is stored in the liver and muscles. It is normally broken down into glucose to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

von Gierke disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000338.htm

# von Gierke disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Von Gierke disease is a condition in which the body cannot break down
glycogen. Glycogen is a form of sugar (glucose) that is stored in the liver
and muscles. It is normally broken down into glucose to give you more energy
when you need it.

Von Gierke disease is also called Type I glycogen storage disease (GSD I).

## Causes

Von Gierke disease occurs when the body lacks the protein (enzyme) that
releases glucose from glycogen. This causes abnormal amounts of glycogen to
build up in certain tissues. When glycogen is not broken down properly, it
leads to low blood sugar.

Von Gierke disease is inherited, which means it is passed down through
families. If both parents carry a nonworking copy of the gene related to this
condition, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) chance of developing the
disease.

## Symptoms

These are symptoms of von Gierke disease:

    * Constant hunger and need to eat often
    * Easy bruising and nosebleeds
    * Fatigue
    * Irritability
    * Puffy cheeks, thin chest and limbs, and swollen belly

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam.

The exam may show signs of:

    * Delayed puberty
    * Enlarged liver
    * Gout
    * Inflammatory bowel disease
    * Liver tumors
    * Severe low blood sugar
    * Stunted growth or failure to grow 

Children with this condition are usually diagnosed before age 1.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Biopsy of liver or kidney
    * Blood sugar test
    * Genetic testing
    * Lactic acid blood test
    * Triglyceride level
    * Uric acid blood test

If a person has this disease, test results will show low blood sugar and high
levels of lactate (produced from lactic acid), blood fats (lipids), and uric
acid.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to avoid low blood sugar. Eat frequently during the
day, especially foods that contain carbohydrates (starches). Older children
and adults may take cornstarch by mouth to increase their carbohydrate intake.

In some children, a feeding tube is placed through their nose into the stomach
throughout the night to provide sugars or uncooked cornstarch. The tube can be
taken out each morning. Alternatively, a gastrostomy tube (G-tube) can be
placed to deliver food directly to the stomach overnight.

A medicine to lower uric acid in the blood and decrease the risk for gout may
be prescribed. Your provider may also prescribe medicines to treat kidney
disease, high lipids, and to increase the cells that fight infection.

People with von Gierke disease cannot properly break down fruit or milk sugar.
It is best to avoid these products.

## Support Groups

Association for Glycogen Storage Disease -- www.agsdus.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, growth, puberty, and quality of life have improved for people
with von Gierke disease. Those who are identified and carefully treated at a
young age can live into adulthood.

Early treatment also decreases the rate of severe problems such as:

    * Gout
    * Kidney failure
    * Life-threatening low blood sugar
    * Liver tumors

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Frequent infection
    * Gout
    * Kidney failure
    * Liver tumors
    * Osteoporosis (thinning bones)
    * Seizures, lethargy, confusion due to low blood sugar
    * Short height
    * Underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics (breasts, pubic hair)
    * Ulcers of the mouth or bowel 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a family history of glycogen storage disease or
early infant death due to low blood sugar.

## Prevention

There is no simple way to prevent glycogen storage disease.

Couples who wish to have a baby may seek genetic counseling and testing to
determine their risk for passing on von Gierke disease.

## Alternative Names

Type I glycogen storage disease

## References

Bonnardeaux A, Bichet DG. Inherited disorders of the renal tubule. In:
Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

Kishnani PS, Chen Y-T. Defects in metabolism of carbohydrates. In: Kliegman
RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook
of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 105.

Santos BL, Souza CF, Schuler-Faccini L, et al. Glycogen storage disease type
1: clinical and laboratory profile. _J Pediatra (Rio J)_. 2014;90(6):572-579.
PMID: 25019649 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25019649.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

