Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000359.htm    
                                Description: Hereditary fructose intolerance is a disorder in which a person lacks the protein needed to break down fructose. Fructose is a fruit sugar that naturally occurs in the body. Man-made fructose is used as    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hereditary fructose intolerance

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000359.htm

# Hereditary fructose intolerance

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hereditary fructose intolerance is a disorder in which a person lacks the
protein needed to break down fructose. Fructose is a fruit sugar that
naturally occurs in the body. Man-made fructose is used as a sweetener in many
foods, including baby food and drinks.

## Causes

This condition occurs when the body is missing an enzyme called aldolase B.
This substance is needed to break down fructose.

If a person without this substance eats fructose or sucrose (cane or beet
sugar, table sugar), complicated chemical changes occur in the body. The body
cannot change its stored form of sugar (glycogen) into glucose. As a result,
blood sugar falls and dangerous substances build up in the liver.

Hereditary fructose intolerance is inherited, which means it can be passed
down through families. If both parents carry a nonworking copy of the aldolase
B gene, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) chance of being affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can be seen after a baby starts eating food or formula.

The early symptoms of fructose intolerance are similar to those of
galactosemia (inability to use the sugar galactose). Later symptoms relate
more to liver disease.

Symptoms may include:

    * Convulsions
    * Excessive sleepiness
    * Irritability
    * Yellow skin or whites of the eyes (jaundice)
    * Poor feeding and growth as a baby, failure to thrive
    * Problems after eating fruits and other foods that contain fructose or sucrose
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Physical examination may show:

    * Enlarged liver and spleen
    * Jaundice

Tests that confirm the diagnosis include:

    * Blood clotting tests
    * Blood sugar test
    * Enzyme studies
    * Genetic testing
    * Kidney function tests
    * Liver function tests
    * Liver biopsy
    * Uric acid blood test
    * Urinalysis

Blood sugar will be low, especially after receiving fructose or sucrose. Uric
acid levels will be high.

## Treatment

Removing fructose and sucrose from the diet is an effective treatment for most
people. Complications may be treated. For example, some people can take a
medicine to lower the level of uric acid in their blood and decrease their
risk for gout.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hereditary fructose intolerance may be mild or severe.

Avoiding fructose and sucrose helps most children with this condition.Â The
prognosis is good in most cases.

A few children with a severe form of the disease will develop severe liver
disease. Even removing fructose and sucrose from the diet may not prevent
severe liver disease in these children.

How well a person does depends on:

    * How soon the diagnosis is made
    * How soon fructose and sucrose can be removed from the diet
    * How well the enzyme works in the body 

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Avoidance of fructose-containing foods due to their effects
    * Bleeding
    * Gout
    * Illness from eating foods containing fructose or sucrose
    * Liver failure
    * Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
    * Seizures
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child develops symptoms of this
condition after feeding starts. If your child has this condition, experts
recommend seeing a doctor who specializes in biochemical genetics or
metabolism.

## Prevention

Couples with a family history of fructose intolerance who wish to have a baby
may consider genetic counseling.

Most of the damaging effects of the disease can be prevented by decreasing
fructose and sucrose intake.

## Alternative Names

Fructosemia; Fructose intolerance; Fructose aldolase B-deficiency; Fructose-1,
6-bisphosphate aldolase deficiency

## References

Bonnardeaux A, Bichet DG. Inherited disorders of the renal tubule. In:
Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

Kishnani PS, Chen Y-T. Defects in metabolism of carbohydrates. In: Kliegman
RM, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 105.

Nadkarni P, Weinstock RS. Carbohydrates. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Scheinman SJ. Genetically based kidney transport disorders. In: Gilbert SJ,
Weiner DE, eds. _National Kidney Foundation's Primer on Kidney Disease_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrate
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

