Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001162.htm    
                                Description: Methylmalonic acidemia is a disorder in which the body cannot break down certain proteins and fats. The result is a buildup of a substance called methylmalonic acid in the blood. This condition is passed    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Methylmalonic acidemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001162.htm

# Methylmalonic acidemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Methylmalonic acidemia is a disorder in which the body cannot break down
certain proteins and fats. The result is a buildup of a substance called
methylmalonic acid in the blood. This condition is passed down through
families.

It is one of several conditions called an "inborn error of metabolism."

## Causes

The disease is most often diagnosed in the first year of life. It is an
autosomal recessive disorder. This means the defective gene must be passed
onto the child from both parents.

A newborn with this rare condition may die before it is ever diagnosed.
Methylmalonic acidemia affects boys and girls equally.

## Symptoms

Babies may appear normal at birth, but develop symptoms once they start eating
more protein, which can cause the condition to get worse. The disease can
cause seizures and stroke.

Symptoms include:

    * Brain disease that gets worse (progressive encephalopathy)
    * Dehydration
    * Developmental delays
    * Failure to thrive
    * Lethargy
    * Repeated yeast infections
    * Seizures
    * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

Testing for methylmalonic acidemia is often done as part of a newborn
screening exam. The United States Department of Health and Human Services
recommends screening for this condition at birth because early detection and
treatment is helpful.

Tests that may be done to diagnose this condition include:

    * Ammonia test
    * Blood gases
    * Complete blood count
    * CT scan or MRI of the brain
    * Electrolyte levels
    * Genetic testing
    * Methylmalonic acid blood test
    * Plasma amino acid test

## Treatment

Treatment consists of cobalamin and carnitine supplements and a low-protein
diet. The child's diet must be carefully controlled.

If supplements do not help, the health care provider may also recommend a diet
that avoids substances called isoleucine, threonine, methionine, and valine.

Liver or kidney transplantation (or both) have been shown to help some
patients. These transplants provide the body with new cells that help
breakdown methylmalonic acid normally.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Babies may not survive their first episode of symptoms from this disease.
Those who survive often have problems with the development of the nervous
system, although normal cognitive development can occur.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Coma
    * Death
    * Kidney failure
    * Pancreatitis
    * Cardiomyopathy
    * Recurrent infections
    * Hypoglycemia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away if your child is having a seizure for the first
time.

See a provider if your child has signs of:

    * Failure-to-thrive
    * Developmental delays

## Prevention

A low-protein diet can help reduce the number of attacks. People with this
condition should avoid those who are sick with contagious illnesses, such as
colds and the flu.

Genetic counseling may be helpful for couples with a family history of this
disorder who wish to have a baby.

Sometimes, expanded newborn screening is done at birth, including screening
for methylmalonic acidemia. You can ask your provider if your child had this
screening.

## References

Gallagher RC, Enns GM, Cowan TM, Mendelsohn B, Packman S. Aminoacidemias and
organic acidemias. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds.
_Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology_. 6th ed. Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Defects in
metabolism of amino acids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 103.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Amino
Acid Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Lipid
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

