Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001200.htm    
                                Description: Alkaptonuria is a rare condition in which a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alkaptonuria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001200.htm

# Alkaptonuria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alkaptonuria is a rare condition in which a person's urine turns a dark
brownish-black color when exposed to air. Alkaptonuria isÂ part of a group of
conditions known as anÂ inborn error of metabolism.

## Causes

A defect in the _HGD_ gene causes alkaptonuria.

The gene defect makes the body unable to properly break down certain amino
acids (tyrosine and phenylalanine). As a result, a substance called
homogentisic acid builds up in the skin and other body tissues. The acid
leaves the body through the urine. The urine turns brownish-black when it
mixes with air.

Alkaptonuria is inherited, which means it is passed down through families. If
both parents carry a nonworking copy of the gene related to this condition,
each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) chance of developing the disease.

## Symptoms

Urine in an infant's diaper may darken and can turn almost black after several
hours. However, many people with this condition may not know they have it. The
disease is most often discoveredÂ in mid-adulthood (around age 40), when joint
and other problems occur.

Symptoms may include:

    * Arthritis (especially of the spine) that gets worse over time
    * Darkening of the ear
    * Dark spots on the white of the eye and cornea

## Exams and Tests

A urine test is done to test for alkaptonuria. If ferric chloride is added to
the urine, it will turn the urine black in people with this condition.

## Treatment

Management of alkaptonuria has traditionally been focused on controlling
symptoms. Eating a low protein diet may be helpful, but many people find this
restriction difficult. Medicines, such as NSAIDs and physical therapy may help
relieve joint pain.

Clinical trials are underway for other drugs to treat this condition and to
assess whether the drug nitisinone provides long-term help with this illness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is expected to be good.

## Possible Complications

The build-up of homogentisic acid in the cartilage causesÂ arthritisÂ in many
adults with alkaptonuria.

    * Homogentisic acid also can build up on the heart valves, especially the mitral valve. This can sometimes lead to the need for valve replacement.
    * Coronary artery disease may develop earlier in life in people with alkaptonuria.
    * Kidney stones and prostate stones may be more common in people with alkaptonuria. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice that your own urine or your
child's urine becomes dark brown or black when it is exposed to air.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for people with a family history of
alkoptonuria who are considering having children.

A blood test can be done to see if you carry the gene for alkaptonuria.

Prenatal tests (amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling) can be done to
screen a developing baby for this condition if the genetic change has been
identified.

## Alternative Names

AKU; Alcaptonuria; Homogentisic acid oxidase deficiency; Alcaptonuric
ochronosis

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Mycobacterial
diseases. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 16.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Defects in
metabolism of amino acids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 103.

National Institutes of Health, National Library of Medicine. Long-term study
of nitisinone to treat alkaptonuria. clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00107783.
Updated January 19, 2011. Accessed May 4, 2019.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Amino
Acid Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

