Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001201.htm    
                                Description: Hartnup disorder isÂ a genetic condition in which there is a defect in the transport of certain amino acids (such as tryptophan and histidine) by the small intestine and kidneys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hartnup disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001201.htm

# Hartnup disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hartnup disorder isÂ a genetic condition in which there is a defect in the
transport of certain amino acids (such as tryptophan and histidine) by the
small intestine and kidneys.

## Causes

Hartnup disorder is a metabolic condition involving amino acids. It is an
inherited condition. This condition occurs due to mutation in the _SLC6A19_
gene. A child must inherit a copy of the defective gene from both parents in
order to be seriously affected.

The condition most often appears between ages 3 to 9 years.

## Symptoms

Most people show no symptoms. If symptoms do occur, they most often appear in
childhood and may include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Mood changes
    * Nervous system (neurologic) problems, such as abnormal muscle tone and uncoordinated movements
    * Red, scaly skin rash, usually when skin is exposed to sunlight
    * Sensitivity to light (photosensitivity)
    * Short stature

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will order a urine test to check for high levels of
neutral amino acids. The levels of other amino acids may be normal.

Your provider can test for the gene that causes this condition. Biochemical
tests may also be ordered.

## Treatment

Treatments include:

    * Avoiding sun exposure by wearing protective clothing and using a sunscreen with a protection factor ofÂ 15 or higher
    * Eating a high-protein diet
    * Taking supplements containing nicotinamide
    * Undergoing mental health treatment, such as taking antidepressants or mood stabilizers, if mood swings or other mental health problems occur 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with this disorder can expect to live a normal life with no
disability. Rarely, there have been reports of severe nervous system disease
and even deaths in families with this disorder.

## Possible Complications

In most cases, there are no complications. Complications when they occur may
include:

    * Changes in skin color that are permanent
    * Mental health problems
    * Rash
    * Uncoordinated movements

Nervous system symptoms can most often be reversed. However, in rare cases
they can be severe or life threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for your provider if you have symptoms of this condition, especially if
you have a family history of Hartnup disorder. Genetic counseling is
recommended if you have a family history of this condition and are planning a
pregnancy.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling prior to marriage and conception may help prevent some
cases. Eating a high-protein diet may prevent amino acid deficiencies that
cause symptoms.

## References

Bhutia YD, Ganapathy V. Protein digestion and absorption. In: Said HM, ed.
_Physiology of the Gastrointestinal Tract_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 47.

Gibson KM, Pearl PL. Inborn errors of metabolism and the nervous system. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 91.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Defects in metabolism of amino
acids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Amino
Acid Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

