Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003361.htm    
                                Description: Plasma amino acids is a screening test done on infants that looks at the amounts of amino acids in the blood. Amino acids are the building blocks for proteins in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Plasma amino acids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003361.htm

# Plasma amino acids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Plasma amino acids is a screening test done on infants that looks at the
amounts of amino acids in the blood. Amino acids are the building blocks for
proteins in the body.

## How the Test is Performed

Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located on the inside of the
elbow or the back of the hand.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin.

    * The blood collects in a small glass tube called a pipette, or onto a slide or test strip.
    * A bandage is put over the spot to stop any bleeding.

The blood sample is sent to a lab. There are several types of methods used to
determine the individual amino acid levels in the blood.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The person having the test should not eat 4 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

There might be slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may
also feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn. The needle
stick will probably cause an infant or child to cry.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to measure the level of amino acids in the blood.

An increased level of a particular amino acid is a strong sign. This shows
that there is a problem with the body's ability to break down (metabolize)
that amino acid.

The test may also be used to look for decreased levels of amino acids in the
blood.

Increased or decreased levels of amino acids in the blood may occur with
fevers, inadequate nutrition, and certain medical conditions.

## Normal Results

All measurements are in micromoles per liter (Âµmol/L). Normal values may vary
between different laboratories. Talk to your health care provider about your
specific test results.

Alanine:

    * Children: 200 to 450
    * Adults: 230 to 510 

Alpha-aminoadipic acid:

    * Children: not detected
    * Adults: not detected 

Alpha-amino-N-butyric acid:

    * Children: 8 to 37
    * Adults: 15 to 41 

Arginine:

    * Children: 44 to 120
    * Adults: 13 to 64 

Asparagine:

    * Children: 15 to 40
    * Adults: 45 to 130 

Aspartic acid:

    * Children: 0 to 26
    * Adults: 0 to 6 

Beta-alanine:

    * Children: 0 to 49
    * Adults: 0 to 29 

Beta-amino-isobutyric acid:

    * Children: not detected
    * Adults: not detected 

Carnosine:

    * Children: not detected
    * Adults: not detected 

Citrulline:

    * Children: 16 to 32
    * Adults: 16 to 55 

Cystine:

    * Children: 19 to 47
    * Adults: 30 to 65 

Glutamic acid:

    * Children: 32 to 140
    * Adults: 18 to 98 

Glutamine:

    * Children: 420 to 730
    * Adults: 390 to 650 

Glycine:

    * Children: 110 to 240
    * Adults: 170 to 330 

Histidine:

    * Children: 68 to 120
    * Adults: 26 to 120 

Hydroxyproline:

    * Children: 0 to 5
    * Adults: not detected 

Isoleucine:

    * Children: 37 to 140
    * Adults: 42 to 100 

Leucine:

    * Children: 70 to 170
    * Adults: 66 to 170 

Lysine:

    * Children: 120 to 290
    * Adults: 150 to 220 

Methionine:

    * Children: 13 to 30
    * Adults: 16 to 30 

1-methylhistidine:

    * Children: not detected
    * Adults: not detected 

3-methylhistidine:

    * Children: 0 to 52
    * Adults: 0 to 64 

Ornithine:

    * Children: 44 to 90
    * Adults: 27 to 80 

Phenylalanine:

    * Children: 26 to 86
    * Adults: 41 to 68 

Phosphoserine:

    * Children: 0 to 12
    * Adults: 0 to 12 

Phosphoethanolamine:

    * Children: 0 to 12
    * Adults: 0 to 55 

Proline:

    * Children: 130 to 290
    * Adults: 110 to 360 

Serine:

    * Children: 93 to 150
    * Adults: 56 to 140 

Taurine:

    * Children: 11 to 120
    * Adults: 45 to 130 

Threonine:

    * Children: 67 to 150
    * Adults: 92 to 240 

Tyrosine:

    * Children: 26 to 110
    * Adults: 45 to 74 

Valine:

    * Children: 160 to 350
    * Adults: 150 to 310 

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increase in the total level of amino acids in the blood may be due to:

    * Eclampsia
    * Inborn error of metabolism
    * Fructose intolerance
    * Ketoacidosis (from diabetes)
    * Kidney failure
    * Reye syndrome
    * Laboratory error 

A decrease in the total level of amino acids in the blood may be due to:

    * Adrenal cortical hyperfunction
    * Fever
    * Hartnup disease
    * Inborn error of metabolism
    * Huntington chorea
    * Malnutrition
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Phlebotomus fever
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Laboratory error 

High or low amounts of individual plasma amino acids must be considered with
other information. Abnormal results may be due to diet, hereditary problems,
or effects of a medicine.

## Considerations

Screening infants for increased levels of amino acids can help detect problems
with metabolism. Early treatment for these conditions may prevent
complications in the future.

## Alternative Names

Amino acids blood test

## Images

    * ![Amino acids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18071t.jpg)Amino acids

## References

Dietzen DJ. Amino acids, peptides, and proteins. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz
Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Defects in
metabolism of amino acids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 103.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Amino
Acid Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![Newborn
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NewbornScreening_thumb.jpg)Newborn
Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

