Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002222.htm    
                                Description: Amino acids are organic compounds that combine to form proteins. Amino acids and proteins are the building blocks of life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amino acids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002222.htm

# Amino acids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amino acids are organic compounds that combine to form proteins. Amino acids
and proteins are the building blocks of life.

When proteins are digested or broken down, amino acids are left. The human
body uses amino acids to make proteins to help the body:

    * Break down food
    * Grow
    * Repair body tissue
    * Perform many other body functions 

Amino acids can also be used as a source of energy by the body.

Amino acids are classified into three groups:

    * Essential amino acids
    * Nonessential amino acids
    * Conditional amino acids 

ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS

    * Essential amino acids cannot be made by the body. As a result, they must come from food.
    * The 9 essential amino acids are: histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, and valine. 

NONESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS

Nonessential means that our bodies produce an amino acid, even if we do not
get it from the food we eat. Nonessential amino acids include: alanine,
arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine,
glycine, proline, serine, and tyrosine.

CONDITIONAL AMINO ACIDS

    * Conditional amino acids are usually not essential, except in times of illness and stress.
    * Conditional amino acids include: arginine, cysteine, glutamine, tyrosine, glycine, ornithine, proline, and serine. 

You do not need to eat essential and nonessential amino acids at every meal,
but getting a balance of them over the whole day is important. A diet based on
a single plant item will not be adequate, but we no longer worry about pairing
proteins (such as beans with rice) at a single meal. Instead we look at the
adequacy of the diet overall throughout the day.

## Images

    * ![Amino acids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18071t.jpg)Amino acids

## References

Binder HJ, Mansbach CM. Nutrient digestion and absorption. In: Boron WF,
Boulpaep EL, eds. _Medical Physiology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 45.

Dietzen DJ. Amino acids, peptides, and proteins. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz
Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Trumbo P, Schlicker S, Yates AA, Poos M; Food and Nutrition Board of the
Institute of Medicine, The National Academies. Dietary reference intakes for
energy, carbohydrate, fiber, fat, fatty acids, cholesterol, protein and amino
acids. _J Am Diet Assoc_. 2002;102(11):1621-1630. PMID: 12449285
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12449285.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Amino
Acid Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

