Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003716.htm    
                                Description: A glucagon blood test measures the amount of a hormone called glucagon in your blood. Glucagon is produced by cells in the pancreas. It helps control your blood sugar level by increasing blood sugar when    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glucagon blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003716.htm

# Glucagon blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A glucagon blood test measures the amount of a hormone called glucagon in your
blood. Glucagon is produced by cells in the pancreas. It helps control your
blood sugar level by increasing blood sugar when it is too low.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will tell you if you need to fast (not eat anything)
for a period of time before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Glucagon stimulates the liver to release glucose. As the level of blood sugar
decreases, the pancreas releases more glucagon. And as blood sugar increases,
the pancreas releases less glucagon.

The provider may measure glucagon level if a person has symptoms of:

    * Diabetes (not commonly measured)
    * Glucagonoma (rare tumor of the pancreas) with symptoms of a skin rash called necrotizing migratory erythema, weight loss, mild diabetes, anemia, stomatitis, glossitis
    * Growth hormone deficiency in children
    * Liver cirrhosis (scarring of the liver and poor liver function)
    * Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) -- most common reason
    * Multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (disease in which one or more of the endocrine glands are overactive or form a tumor)
    * Pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) 

## Normal Results

The normal range is 50 to 100 pg/mL.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate that the person may have a condition described
above under Why the Test is Performed.

Some experts now believe that high glucagon levels in the blood contribute to
the development of diabetes instead of just a low level of insulin. Medicines
are being developed to decrease glucagon levels or block the signal from
glucagon in the liver.

When your blood sugar is low, the level of glucagon in your blood should be
high. If it is not increased, this can help identify people that are at higher
risk of severe hypoglycemia that can be dangerous.

Glucagon can be increased by prolonged fasting.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins vary in size
from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other. Taking
blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Glucagonoma - glucagon test; Multiple endocrine neoplasia type I - glucagon
test; Hypoglycemia - glucagon test; Low blood sugar - glucagon test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Glucagon - plasma. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:580-581.

Nadkarni P, Weinstock RS. Carbohydrates. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![Hypoglycemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypoglycemia_thumb.jpg)Hypoglycemia
_Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

