Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000310.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced low blood sugar is low blood glucose that results from taking medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced low blood sugar

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000310.htm

# Drug-induced low blood sugar

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced low blood sugar is low blood glucose that results from taking
medicine.

## Causes

Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) is common in people with diabetes who are
taking insulin or other medicines to control their diabetes.

Other than certain medicines, the following can also cause blood sugar
(glucose) level to drop:

    * Drinking alcohol
    * Getting more activity than usual
    * Intentionally or unintentionally overdosing on the medicines used to treat diabetes
    * Missing meals 

Even when diabetes is managed very carefully, the medicines used to treat
diabetes can result in drug-induced low blood sugar. The condition may also
occur when someone without diabetes takes a medicine used to treat diabetes.
In rare cases, non-diabetes-related medicines can cause low blood sugar.

Medicines that can cause drug-induced low blood sugar include:

    * Beta-blockers (such as atenolol, or propanolol overdose)
    * Cibenzoline and quinidine (heart arrhythmia drugs)
    * Indomethacin (a pain reliever)
    * Insulin
    * Metformin when used with sulfonylureas
    * SGLT2 inhibitors (such as dapagliflozin and empagliflozin) with or without sulfonylureas
    * Sulfonylureas (such as glipizide, glimepiride, glyburide) 
    * Thiazolidinediones (such as pioglitazone and rosiglitazone) when used with sulfonylureas
    * Drugs that fight infections (such as gatifloxacin, pentamadine, quinine, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole)

## Alternative Names

Hypoglycemia - drug-induced; Low blood glucose - drug-induced

## Images

    * ![Food and insulin release](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8812t.jpg)Food and insulin release

## References

Cryer PE. Glycemic goals in diabetes: trade-off between glycemic control and
iatrogenic hypoglycemia. _Diabetes_. 2014;63(7):2188-2195. PMID: 24962915
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24962915.

Gale EAM, Anderson JV. Diabetes mellitus. In: Kumar P, Clark M, eds. _Kumar
and Clarke's Clinical Medicine._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
27.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypoglycemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypoglycemia_thumb.jpg)Hypoglycemia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

