Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000386.htm    
                                Description: Low blood sugar is a condition that occurs when the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low blood sugar

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000386.htm

# Low blood sugar

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low blood sugar is a condition that occurs when the body's blood sugar
(glucose) decreases and is too low.

Blood sugar below 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) is considered low. Blood sugar at or
below this level can be harmful.

The medical name of low blood sugar is hypoglycemia.

## Causes

Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas. Insulin is needed to move glucose
into cells where it is stored or used for energy. Without enough insulin,
glucose builds up in the blood instead of going into the cells. This leads to
symptoms of diabetes.

Low blood sugar occurs due to any of the following:

    * Your body's sugar (glucose) is used up too quickly
    * Glucose production by the body is too low or it is released into the bloodstream too slowly
    * Too much insulin is in the bloodstream

Low blood sugar is common in people with diabetes who are taking insulin or
certain other medicines to control their diabetes. However, many other
diabetes medicines do not cause low blood sugar.

Exercise can also lead to low blood sugar in people taking insulin to treat
their diabetes.

Babies born to mothers with diabetes may have severe drops in blood sugar
right after birth.

In people who do not have diabetes, low blood sugar may be caused by:

    * Drinking alcohol
    * Insulinoma, which is a rare tumor in the pancreas that produces too much insulin
    * Lack of a hormone, such as cortisol, growth hormone, or thyroid hormone
    * Severe heart, kidney, or liver failure
    * Infection that affects the whole body (sepsis)
    * Some types of weight-loss surgery (usually 5 or more years after the surgery)
    * Medicines not used to treat diabetes (certain antibiotics or heart drugs)

## Symptoms

Symptoms you may have when your blood sugar gets too low include:

    * Double vision or blurry vision
    * Fast or pounding heartbeat
    * Feeling cranky or acting aggressive
    * Feeling nervous
    * Headache
    * Hunger
    * Shaking or trembling
    * Sweating
    * Tingling or numbness of the skin
    * Tiredness or weakness
    * Trouble sleeping
    * Unclear thinking

In many people with diabetes, low blood sugar occurs every time with nearly
the same symptoms.

Some symptoms, like hunger or sweating, occur when blood sugar is only
slightly low. More severe symptoms, such as unclear thinking or seizure, occur
when the blood sugar is much lower (less than 40 mg/dL or 2.2 mmol/L).

Even if you do not have symptoms, your blood sugar could still be too low
(called hypoglycemic unawareness). You may not even know you have low blood
sugar until you faint, have a seizure, or go into a coma. If you have
diabetes, ask your health care provider if wearing a continuous glucose
monitor and sensor can help you detect when your blood sugar is getting too
low to help prevent symptoms.

If you have diabetes, keeping good control of your blood sugar can help
prevent low blood sugar. Talk to your provider if you're not sure about the
causes and symptoms of low blood sugar.

## Exams and Tests

When you have low blood sugar, the reading will be lower than 70 mg/dL (3.9
mmol/L) on your glucose monitor.

Your provider may ask you to wear a small monitor that measures your blood
sugar every 5 minutes (continuous glucose monitor). The device is often worn
for 3 or 7 days. The data is downloaded to find out if you're having periods
of low blood sugar that are going unnoticed.

If you're admitted to the hospital, you'll likely have blood samples taken
from your vein to:

    * Measure your blood sugar level
    * Diagnose the cause of your low blood sugar (these tests need to be carefully timed related to low blood sugar to make an accurate diagnosis)

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to correct your low blood sugar level.

If you have diabetes, it is likely your provider told you how to treat
yourself for low blood sugar. Treatment may include:

    * Drinking juice
    * Eating food
    * Taking glucose tablets 

Or you may have been told to give yourself a shot of glucagon. This is a
medicine that raises blood sugar.

If low blood sugar is caused by an insulinoma, surgery to remove the tumor
will be recommended.

## Possible Complications

Severe low blood sugar is a medical emergency. It can cause seizures and brain
damage. Severe low blood sugar that causes you to become unconscious is called
hypoglycemic or insulin shock.

Even one episode of severe low blood sugar may make it less likely for you to
have symptoms that allow you to recognize another episode of low blood sugar.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If signs of low blood sugar do not improve after you have eaten a snack that
has sugar:

    * Get a ride to the emergency room. DO NOT drive yourself.
    * Call a local emergency number (such as 911) 

Get medical help right away for a person with diabetes or low blood sugar who:

    * Becomes less alert
    * Cannot be woken up 

## Alternative Names

Hypoglycemia; Insulin shock; Insulin reaction; Diabetes - hypoglycemia

## Images

    * ![Food and insulin release](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8812t.jpg)Food and insulin release
    * ![15/15 rule](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19815t.jpg)15/15 rule

## References

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: standards of medical care
in diabetes - 2018. _Diabetes Care._ 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID: 29222377Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222377.

Davis SN, Lamos EM, Younk LM. Hypoglycemia and hypoglycemic syndromes. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 47.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypoglycemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypoglycemia_thumb.jpg)Hypoglycemia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

