Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/c-peptide-test/    
                                Description: A C-peptide test measures the level of C-peptide in your blood or urine. It can be used to tell which type of diabetes you have (type 1 or type 2), find the cause of low blood sugar, or check the status of a pancreatic tumor. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

C-Peptide Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/c-peptide-test/

# C-Peptide Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a C-peptide test?

This test measures the level of C-peptide in your blood or urine. C-peptide is
a substance made in the pancreas, along with insulin. Insulin is a hormone
that controls the body's glucose (blood sugar) levels. Glucose is your body's
main source of energy. If your body doesn't make the right amount of insulin,
it may be a sign of diabetes.

C-peptide and insulin are released from the pancreas at the same time and in
about equal amounts. So a C-peptide test can show how much insulin your body
is making. This test can be a good way to measure insulin levels because
C-peptide tends to stay in the body longer than insulin.

Other names: insulin C-peptide, connecting peptide insulin, proinsulin
C-peptide

## What is it used for?

A C-peptide test is often used to help tell the difference between type 1 and
type 2 diabetes. With type 1 diabetes, your pancreas makes little to no
insulin, and little or no C-peptide. With type 2 diabetes, the body makes
insulin, but doesn't use it well. This can cause C-peptide levels to be higher
than normal.

The test may also be used to:

    * Find the cause of low blood sugar, also known as hypoglycemia.
    * Check if diabetes treatments are working.
    * Check on the status of a pancreatic tumor.

## Why do I need a C-peptide test?

You may need a C-peptide test if your health care provider thinks you have
diabetes, but is unsure whether it is type 1 or type 2. You may also need a
C-peptide test if you have symptoms of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia).
Symptoms include:

    * Sweating
    * Rapid or irregular heartbeat
    * Abnormal hunger
    * Blurred vision
    * Confusion
    * Fainting

## What happens during a C-peptide test?

A C-peptide test is usually given as a blood test. During a blood test, a
health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

C-peptide can also be measured in urine. Your health care provider may ask you
to collect all urine passed in a 24-hour period. This is called a 24-hour
urine sample test. For this test, your health care provider or a laboratory
professional will give a container in which to collect your urine and
instructions on how to collect and store your samples. A 24-hour urine sample
test generally includes the following steps:

    * Empty your bladder in the morning and flush that urine away. Record the time.
    * For the next 24 hours, save all your urine passed in the container provided.
    * Store your urine container in the refrigerator or a cooler with ice.
    * Return the sample container to your health provider's office or the laboratory as instructed.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) for 8â12 hours before a C-peptide
blood test. If your health care provider has ordered a C-peptide urine test,
be sure to ask if there are any specific instructions you need to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

There are no known risks to a urine test.

## What do the results mean?

A low level of C-peptide can mean your body isn't making enough insulin. It
may be a sign of one of the following conditions:

    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Addison disease, a disorder of the adrenal glands
    * Liver disease

It may also be a sign that your diabetes treatment is not working well.

A high level of C-peptide can mean your body is making too much insulin. It
may be a sign of one of the following conditions:

    * Type 2 diabetes
    * Insulin resistance, a condition in which the body doesn't respond the right way to insulin. It causes the body to make too much insulin, raising your blood sugar to very high levels.
    * Cushing's syndrome, a disorder in which your body makes too much of a hormone called cortisol.
    * A tumor of the pancreas

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a C-peptide test?

A C-peptide test can provide important information about the type of diabetes
you have and whether or not your diabetes treatment is working well. But it is
_not_ used to diagnose diabetes. Other tests, such as blood glucose and urine
glucose, are used to screen and diagnose diabetes.

## References

    1. Diabetes Forecast [Internet]. Arlington (VA): American Diabetes Association; c2018. 6 Tests to Determine Diabetes Types; 2015 Sep [cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.diabetesforecast.org/2015/sep-oct/tests-to-determine-diabetes.html
    2. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University; Health Library: Type 1 Diabetes [cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/endocrinology/type_1_diabetes_85,p00355
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. 24-Hour Urine Sample [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/urine-24
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. C-peptide [updated 2018 Mar 24; cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/c-peptide
    5. Leighton E, Sainsbury CAR, Jones GC. A Practical Review of C-Peptide Testing in Diabetes. Diabetes Ther [Internet]. 2017 Jun [cited 2018 Mar 24]; 8(3): 475â87. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5446389
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    7. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: 24-Hour Urine Collection [cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=92&ContentID;=P08955
    8. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: C-Peptide (Blood) [cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=c_peptide_blood
    9. UW Health: American Family Children's Hospital [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Kids Health: Blood Test: C-Peptide [cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealthkids.org/kidshealth/parents/doctors-hospitals/medical-tests-exams/blood-test-c-peptide/65970.html
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Insulin Resistance: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Mar 13; cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/insulin-resistance/hw132628.html
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. C-Peptide: Results [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/c-peptide/tu2817.html#tu2826
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. C-Peptide: Test Overview [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/c-peptide/tu2817
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. C-Peptide: Why It is Done [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/c-peptide/tu2817.html#tu2821

## Related Health Topics

    * Blood Sugar
    * Diabetes
    * Diabetes Type 1
    * Diabetes Type 2
    * Hypoglycemia
    * Pancreatic Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Blood Glucose Test
    * Glucose in Urine Test
    * Hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

