Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007306.htm    
                                Description: A low blood sugar level in newborn babies is also called neonatal hypoglycemia. It refers to low blood sugar (glucose) in the first few days after birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low blood sugar - newborns

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007306.htm

# Low blood sugar - newborns

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A low blood sugar level in newborn babies is also called neonatal
hypoglycemia. It refers to low blood sugar (glucose) in the first few days
after birth.

## Causes

Babies need blood sugar (glucose) for energy. Most of that glucose is used by
the brain.

The baby gets glucose from the mother through the placenta before birth. After
birth, the baby gets glucose from the mother through her milk or from formula,
and the baby also produces it in the liver.

Glucose level can drop if:

    * There is too much insulin in the blood. Insulin is a hormone that pulls glucose from the blood.
    * The baby is not producing enough glucose.
    * The baby's body is using more glucose than is being produced.
    * The baby is not able to feed enough to keep the glucose level up.

Neonatal hypoglycemia occurs when the newborn's glucose level causes symptoms
or is below the level considered safe for the baby's age. It occurs in about 1
to 3 out of every 1,000 births.

Low blood sugar level is more likely in infants with one or more of these risk
factors:

    * Born early, has a serious infection, or needed oxygen right after delivery
    * Mother has diabetes (these infants are often larger than normal)
    * Have slower than usual growth in the womb during pregnancy
    * Are smaller or larger in size than normal for their gestational age

## Symptoms

Infants with low blood sugar may not have symptoms. If your baby has one of
the risk factors for low blood sugar, nurses in the hospital will check your
baby's blood sugar level, even if there are no symptoms.

Also, blood sugar level is very often checked for babies with these symptoms:

    * Bluish-colored or pale skin
    * Breathing problems, such as pauses in breathing (apnea), rapid breathing, or a grunting sound
    * Irritability or listlessness
    * Loose or floppy muscles
    * Poor feeding or vomiting
    * Problems keeping the body warm
    * Tremors, shakiness, sweating, or seizures

## Exams and Tests

Newborns at risk for hypoglycemia should have a blood test to measure blood
sugar level every few hours after birth. This will be done using a heel stick.
The health care provider should continue taking blood tests until the baby's
glucose level stays normal for about 12 to 24 hours.

Other possible tests:

    * Newborn screening for metabolic disorders, including blood and urine tests

## Treatment

Infants with a low blood sugar level will need to receive extra feedings with
mother's milk or formula. Babies who are breast-fed may need to receive extra
formula if the mother is not able to produce enough milk. (Hand expression and
massage can help mothers express more milk.) Sometimes a sugar gel may be
given by mouth temporarily if there is not enough milk.

The infant may need a sugar solution given through a vein (intravenously) if
unable to eat by mouth, or if the blood sugar level is very low.

Treatment will be continued until the baby can maintain blood sugar level.
This may take hours or days. Infants who were born early, have an infection,
or were born at a low weight may need to be treated for a longer period of
time.

If the low blood sugar continues, in rare cases, the baby may also receive
medicine to increase blood sugar level. In very rare cases, newborns with very
severe hypoglycemia who do not improve with treatment may need surgery to
remove part of the pancreas (to reduce insulin production).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is good for newborns who do not have symptoms, or who respond well
to treatment. However, low blood sugar level can return in a small number of
babies after treatment.

The condition is more likely to return when babies are taken off feedings
given through a vein before they are fully ready to eat by mouth.

Babies with more severe symptoms are more likely to develop learning problems.
This is more often true for babies who are at a lower-than-average weight or
whose mother has diabetes.

## Possible Complications

Severe or persistent low blood sugar level may affect the baby's mental
function. In rare cases, heart failure or seizures may occur. However, these
problems may also be due to the underlying cause of the low blood sugar,
rather than a result of the low blood sugar itself.

## Prevention

If you have diabetes during pregnancy, work with your provider to control your
blood sugar level. Be sure that your newborn's blood sugar level is monitored
after birth.

## Alternative Names

Neonatal hypoglycemia

## References

Devaskar SU, Garg M. Disorders of carbohydrate metabolism in the neonate. In:
Martin RM, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
95.

Sperling MA. Hypoglycemia. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 92.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypoglycemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypoglycemia_thumb.jpg)Hypoglycemia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

