Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ferritin-blood-test/    
                                Description: Ferritin is a protein that stores iron in your cells. A ferritin blood test can tell whether you are getting too much or too little iron. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Ferritin Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ferritin-blood-test/

# Ferritin Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a ferritin blood test?

A ferritin blood test measures the level of ferritin in your blood. Ferritin
is a protein that stores iron inside your cells. You need iron to make healthy
red blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen from your lungs to the rest of
your body. Iron is also important for healthy muscles, bone marrow, and organ
function. Too little or too much iron in your system can cause serious health
problems if not treated.

Other names: serum ferritin, serum ferritin level, ferritin serum

## What is it used for?

A ferritin blood test is used to check your iron levels. It can help your
health care provider find out if your body has the right amount of iron to
stay healthy.

## Why do I need a ferritin blood test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of iron levels that are too low or
too high.

Symptoms of iron levels that are too low include:

    * Pale skin
    * Fatigue
    * Weakness
    * Dizziness
    * Shortness of breath
    * Rapid heart beat

Symptoms of iron levels that are too high can vary and tend to get worse over
time. Symptoms may include:

    * Joint pain
    * Abdominal pain
    * Lack of energy
    * Weight loss

You may also need this test if you have restless legs syndrome, a condition
that may be related to low iron levels.

## What happens during a ferritin blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

Your health care provider may ask you to fast (not eat or drink) for 12 hours
before your test. The test is usually done in the morning. If you have any
questions about how to prepare for your test, talk to your health care
provider.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Lower than normal ferritin levels may mean you have iron deficiency anemia or
another condition related to low iron levels. Iron deficiency anemia is a
common type of anemia, a disorder in which your body doesn't make enough red
blood cells. Iron deficiency anemia can cause heart problems, infections, and
other health issues.

Higher than normal ferritin levels can mean you have too much iron in your
body. Conditions that cause increased iron levels include liver disease,
alcohol abuse, and hemochromatosis, a disorder that can lead to cirrhosis,
heart disease, and diabetes.

If your ferritin results are not normal, it does not necessarily mean you have
a medical condition needing treatment. Certain medicines can decrease or
increase your ferritin levels. If you have questions about your results, talk
to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a ferritin blood test?

Most conditions that cause too little or too much iron can be successfully
treated with medicines, diet, and/or other therapies.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Ferritin, Serum; 296 p.
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Ferritin: The Test [updated 2013 Jul 21; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/ferritin/tab/test
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Ferritin: The Test Sample [updated 2013 Jul 21; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/ferritin/tab/sample
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Ferritin Test: Overview; 2017 Feb 10 [cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ferritin-test/home/ovc-20271871
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Ferritin Test: Results; 2017 Feb 10 [cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ferritin-test/details/results/rsc-20271960
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Ferritin Test: Why it's done; 2017 Feb 10 [cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ferritin-test/details/why-its-done/icc-20271953
    7. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Iron [cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/disorders-of-nutrition/minerals/iron
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How is Iron-Deficiency Anemia Diagnosed? [updated 2014 Mar 26; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/ida/diagnosis
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Causes Restless Legs Syndrome? [updated 2010 Nov 1; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/rls/causes
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is Hemochromatosis? [updated 2011 Feb 1; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/hemo
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is Iron-Deficiency Anemia? [updated 2014 Mar 26; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/ida
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    14. Nemours Children's Health System [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c2017. Blood Test: Ferritin (Iron) [cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://m.kidshealth.org/Nemours/en/parents/test-ferritin.html
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2017. Ferritin blood test: Overview [updated 2017 Nov 2; cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/ferritin-blood-test
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Ferritin (Blood) [cited 2017 Nov 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=ferritin_blood

## Related Health Topics

    * Anemia
    * Blood
    * Hemochromatosis
    * Iron

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Complete Blood Count (CBC)
    * Hematocrit Test
    * Hemoglobin Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 12 March 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

