Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000327.htm    
                                Description: Hemochromatosis is a condition in which there is too much iron in the body. It is also called iron overload.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemochromatosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000327.htm

# Hemochromatosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemochromatosis is a condition in which there is too much iron in the body. It
is also called iron overload.

## Causes

Hemochromatosis may be a genetic disorder passed down through families.

    * People with this type absorb too much iron through their digestive tract. Iron builds up in the body. The liver, heart, and pancreas are common organs where iron builds up.
    * It is present at birth, but may not be diagnosed for years.

Hemochromatosis may also occur as a result of:

    * Other blood disorders, such as thalassemiaÂ or certain anemias. Too many blood transfusions over time may lead to iron overload.
    * Long-term alcohol use and other health conditions.

This disorder affects more men than women. It is common in white people of
western European descent.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Fatigue, lack of energy, weakness
    * Generalized darkening of skin color (often referred to as bronzing)
    * Joint pain
    * Loss of body hair
    * Loss of sexual desire
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show liver and
spleen swelling, and skin color changes.

Blood tests may help make the diagnosis. Tests may include:

    * Ferritin level
    * Iron level
    * Percentage of transferrin saturation (high)
    * Genetic testing

Other tests may include:

    * Blood sugar (glucose) level 
    * Alpha fetoprotein
    * Echocardiogram to examine the heart's function 
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG) to look at the electrical activity of the heart 
    * Imaging tests such as CT scans, MRI, and ultrasound 
    * Liver function tests 

The condition may be confirmed with a liver biopsy or genetic testing. If a
genetic defect is confirmed, other blood tests can be used to find out if
other family members are at risk for iron overload.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to remove excess iron from the body and treat any
organ damage.

A procedure called phlebotomy is the best method for removing excess iron from
the body:

    * One half liter of blood is removed from the body each week until the body's iron stores are depleted. This may take many months to do.
    * After that, the procedure may be done less often to maintain normal iron storage.

Why the procedure is needed depends on your symptoms and levels of hemoglobin
and serum ferritin and how much iron you take in your diet.

Other health problems such as diabetes, decreased testosterone levels in men,
arthritis, liver failure, and heart failure will be treated.

If you are diagnosed with hemochromatosis, your provider may recommend a diet
to reduce how much iron is absorbed through your digestive tract. Your
provider may recommend the following:

    * Do not drink alcohol, especially if you have liver damage.
    * Do not take iron pills or vitamins containing iron.
    * Do not use iron cookware.
    * Limit foods fortified with iron, such as 100% iron-fortified breakfast cereals.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Untreated, iron overload can lead to liver damage.Â

Extra iron may also build up in other areas of the body, including the thyroid
gland, testicles, pancreas, pituitary gland, heart, or joints. Early treatment
can help prevent complications such as liver disease, heart disease, arthritis
or diabetes.

How well you do depends on the amount of organ damage. Some organ damage can
be reversed when hemochromatosis is detected early and treated aggressively
with phlebotomy.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

    * Liver cirrhosis 
    * Liver failure 
    * Liver cancer

The disease may lead to the development of:

    * Arthritis 
    * Diabetes 
    * Heart problems 
    * Increased risk for certain bacterial infections 
    * Testicular atrophy 
    * Skin color changes 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of hemochromatosis develop.

Call for an appointment with your provider (for screening) if a family member
has been diagnosed with hemochromatosis.

## Prevention

Screening family members of a person diagnosed with hemochromatosis may detect
the disease early so that treatment can be started before organ damage has
occurred in other affected relatives.

## Alternative Names

Iron overload; Blood transfusion - hemochromatosis

## Images

    * ![Hepatomegaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9396t.jpg)Hepatomegaly

## References

Bacon BR, Britton RS. Hemochromatosis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 75.

Brittenham GM. Disorders of iron homeostasis: iron deficiency and overload.
In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic
Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Hemochromatosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemochromatosis_thumb.jpg)Hemochromatosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

