Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/food-allergy-testing/    
                                Description: Food allergy testing can find out if you or your child has a food allergy. Food allergies can cause symptoms ranging from a mild rash to a life-threatening condition called anaphylactic shock. Diagnosing a food allergy can help prevent serious complications. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Food Allergy Testing

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/food-allergy-testing/

# Food Allergy Testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is food allergy testing?

A food allergy is a condition that causes your immune system to treat a
normally harmless type of food as if was a dangerous virus, bacteria, or other
infectious agent. The immune system response to a food allergy ranges from
mild rashes to abdominal pain to a life-threatening complication called
anaphylactic shock.

Food allergies are more common in children than adults, affecting about 5
percent of children in the United States. Many children outgrow their
allergies as they get older. Almost 90 percent of all food allergies are
caused by the following foods:

    * Milk
    * Soy
    * Wheat
    * Eggs
    * Tree nuts (including almonds, walnuts, pecans, and cashews)
    * Fish
    * Shellfish
    * Peanuts

For some people, even the tiniest amount of the allergy-causing food can
trigger life-threatening symptoms. Of the foods listed above, peanuts, tree
nuts, shellfish, and fish usually cause the most serious allergic reactions.

Food allergy testing can find out whether you or your child has a food
allergy. If a food allergy is suspected, your primary care provider or your
child's provider will probably refer you to an allergist. An allergist is a
doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating allergies and asthma.

Other names: IgE test, oral challenge test

## What is it used for?

Food allergy testing is used to find out if you or your child has an allergy
to a specific food. It may also be used to find out whether you have a true
allergy or, instead, a sensitivity to a food.

Food sensitivity, also called food intolerance, is often confused with a food
allergy. The two conditions can have similar symptoms, but complications can
be very different.

A food allergy is an immune system reaction that can affect organs throughout
the body. It can cause dangerous health conditions. Food sensitivity is
usually much less serious. If you have a food sensitivity, your body can't
properly digest a certain food, or a food bothers your digestive system.
Symptoms of food sensitivity are mostly limited to digestive problems such as
abdominal pain, nausea, gas, and diarrhea.

Common food sensitivities include:

    * Lactose, a type of sugar found in dairy products. It may be confused with a milk allergy.
    * MSG, an additive found in many foods
    * Gluten, a protein found in wheat, barley, and other grains. It is sometimes confused with a wheat allergy. Gluten sensitivity and wheat allergies are also different from celiac disease. In celiac disease, your immune system damages your small intestine when you eat gluten. Some of the digestive symptoms can be similar, but celiac disease is not a food sensitivity or a food allergy.

## Why do I need food allergy testing?

You or your child may need food allergy testing if you have certain risk
factors and/or symptoms.

Risk factors for food allergies include having:

    * A family history of food allergies
    * Other food allergies
    * Other types of allergies, such as hay fever or eczema
    * Asthma

Symptoms of food allergies usually affect one or more of the following parts
of the body:

    *  **Skin.** Skin symptoms include hives, tingling, itching, and redness. In babies with food allergies, the first symptom is often a rash.
    *  **Digestive system.** Symptoms include abdominal pain, metallic taste in the mouth, and swelling and/or itching of the tongue.
    *  **Respiratory system** (includes your lungs, nose, and throat). Symptoms include coughing, wheezing, nasal congestion, trouble breathing, and tightness in the chest.

Anaphylactic shock is a severe allergic reaction that affects the entire body.
Symptoms may include those listed above, as well as:

    * Rapid swelling of the tongue, lips, and/or throat
    * Tightening of the airways and trouble breathing
    * Fast pulse
    * Dizziness
    * Pale skin
    * Feeling faint

Symptoms can happen just seconds after someone is exposed to the allergic
substance. Without quick medical treatment, anaphylactic shock can be fatal.
If anaphylactic shock is suspected, you should call 911 immediately.

If you or your child is at risk for anaphylactic shock, your allergist may
prescribe a small device you can use in an emergency. The device, which is
called an auto-injector, delivers a dose of epinephrine, a medicine that slows
down the allergic reaction. You will still need to get medical help after
using the device.

## What happens during food allergy testing?

The testing may begin with your allergist performing a physical exam and
asking about your symptoms. After that, he or she will perform one or more of
the following tests:

    *  **Oral challenge test.** During this test, your allergist will give you or your child small amounts of the food suspected of causing the allergy. The food may be given in a capsule or with an injection. You'll be closely watched to see if there is an allergic reaction. Your allergist will provide immediate treatment if there is a reaction.
    *  **Elimination diet.** This is used to find which specific food or foods is causing the allergy. You'll start by eliminating all suspected foods from your child's or your diet. You will then add the foods back to the diet one at a time, looking for an allergic reaction. An elimination diet can't show whether your reaction is due to a food allergy or a food sensitivity. An elimination diet is not recommended for anyone at risk for a severe allergic reaction.
    *  **Skin prick test.** During this test, your allergist or other provider will place a small amount of the suspected food on the skin of your forearm or back. He or she will then prick the skin with a needle to allow a tiny amount of the food to get beneath the skin. If you get a red, itchy bump at the injection site, it usually means you are allergic to the food.
    *  **Blood test.** This test checks for substances called IgE antibodies in the blood. IgE antibodies are made in the immune system when you are exposed to an allergy-causing substance. During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a food allergy test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

An oral challenge test can cause a severe allergic reaction. That's why this
test is only given under close supervision by an allergist.

You may get an allergic reaction during an elimination diet. You should talk
to your allergist about how to manage potential reactions.

A skin prick test can bother the skin. If your skin is itchy or irritated
after the test, your allergist may prescribe medicine to relieve the symptoms.
In rare cases, a skin test can cause a severe reaction. So this test must also
be done under close supervision by an allergist.

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If the results show that you or your child has a food allergy, the treatment
is to avoid the food.

There is no cure for food allergies, but eliminating the food from your diet
should prevent allergic reactions.

Avoiding allergy-causing foods can involve carefully reading labels on
packaged goods. It also means you need to explain the allergy to anyone who
prepares or serves food for you or your child. This includes people like
waiters, babysitters, teachers, and cafeteria workers. But even if you are
careful, you or your child may be exposed to the food by accident.

If you or your child is at risk for a severe allergic reaction, your allergist
will prescribe an epinephrine device you can use if accidentally exposed to
the food. You'll be taught how to inject the device in your or your child's
thigh.

If you have questions about your results and/or how to manage allergic
complications, talk to your allergist.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## References

    1. American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology [Internet]. Milwaukee (WI): American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology; c2018. Allergists/Immunologists: Specialized Skills [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.aaaai.org/about-aaaai/allergist-immunologists-specialized-skills
    2. American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology [Internet]. Milwaukee (WI): American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology; c2018. Celiac Disease, Non-celiac Gluten Sensitivity, and Food Allergy: How Are They Different? [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.aaaai.org/conditions-and-treatments/library/allergy-library/celiac-disease
    3. American College of Allergy Asthma & Immunology [Internet]. Arlington Heights (IL): American College of Allergy Asthma & Immunology; c2014. Food Allergy Testing [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://acaai.org/allergies/types/food-allergies/testing
    4. Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America [Internet]. Landover (MD): Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America; c1995â2017. Food Allergies [updated 2015 Oct; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.aafa.org/food-allergies-advocacy
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Food Allergies in Schools [updated 2018 Feb 14; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/foodallergies
    6. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Itasca (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2018. Common Food Allergies; 2006 Jan 6 [updated 2018 Jul 25; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/healthy-living/nutrition/Pages/Common-Food-Allergies.aspx
    7. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. The Johns Hopkins University, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, and Johns Hopkins Health System; Food Allergies [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/non-traumatic_emergencies/food_allergies_85,P00837
    8. KidsHealth from Nemours [Internet]. The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. What Happens During an Allergy Test?; [cited 2018 Nov 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/teens/allergy-tests.html
    9. KidsHealth from Nemours [Internet]. The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. What's the Difference Between a Food Allergy and Food Intolerance? [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/allergy-intolerance.html?WT.ac=ctg#catceliac
    10. Kurowski K, Boxer RW. Food Allergies: Detection and Management. Am Fam Physician [Internet]. 2008 Jun 15 [cited 2018 Oct 31]; 77 (12):1678â86. Available from: https://www.aafp.org/afp/2008/0615/p1678.html
    11. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Allergies [updated 2018 Oct 29; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/allergies
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Allergy skin tests: About 2018 Aug 7 [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/allergy-tests/about/pac-20392895
    13. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Food allergy: Diagnosis and treatment; 2017 May 2 [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/food-allergy/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20355101
    14. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Food allergy: Symptoms and causes; 2017 May 2 [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/food-allergy/symptoms-causes/syc-20355095
    15. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Food Allergy [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/immune-disorders/allergic-reactions-and-other-hypersensitivity-disorders/food-allergy
    16. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Diagnostic Tests for Allergies [cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P00013
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Allergy Tests: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/allergy-tests/hw198350.html#hw198353
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Food Allergies: Exams and Tests [updated 2017 Nov 15; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/food-allergies/te7016.html#te7023
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Food Allergies: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Nov 15; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/food-allergies/te7016.html#te7017
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Food Allergies: Symptoms [updated 2017 Nov 15; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/food-allergies/te7016.html#te7019
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Food Allergies: When To Call a Doctor [updated 2017 Nov 15; cited 2018 Oct 31]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/food-allergies/te7016.html#te7022

## Related Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Anaphylaxis
    * Breathing Problems
    * Celiac Disease
    * Eczema
    * Food Allergy
    * Gluten Sensitivity
    * Hives
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Lactose Intolerance
    * Rashes

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Allergy Blood Test
    * Celiac Disease Screening
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

