Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000276.htm    
                                Description: Lactose is a type of sugar found in milk and other dairy products. An enzyme called lactase is needed by the body to digest lactose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lactose intolerance

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000276.htm

# Lactose intolerance

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lactose is a type of sugar found in milk and other dairy products. An enzyme
called lactase is needed by the body to digest lactose.

Lactose intolerance develops when the small intestine does not make enough of
this enzyme.

## Causes

Babies' bodies make the lactase enzyme so they can digest milk, including
breast milk.

    * Babies born too early (premature) sometimes have lactose intolerance. 
    * Children who were born at full term often do not show signs of the problem before they are 3 years old.

Lactose intolerance is very common in adults. It is rarely dangerous. About 30
million American adults have some degree of lactose intolerance by age 20.

    * In white people, lactose intolerance often develops in children older than age 5. This is the age when our bodies may stop making lactase.
    * In African Americans, the problem can occur as early as age 2.
    * The condition is very common among adults with Asian, African, or Native American heritage. 
    * It is less common in people of northern or western European background, but still may occur. 

An illness that involves or injures your small intestine may cause less of the
lactase enzyme to be made. Treatment of these illnesses may improve the
symptoms of lactose intolerance. These may include:

    * Surgery of the small intestine
    * Infections in the small intestine (this is most often seen in children)
    * Diseases that damage the small intestines, such as celiac sprue or Crohn disease

Babies may be born with a genetic defect and are not able to make any of the
lactase enzyme.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often occur 30 minutes to 2 hours after having milk products.
Symptoms may be worse when you consume large amounts.

Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal bloating
    * Abdominal cramps
    * Diarrhea
    * Gas (flatulence)
    * Nausea 

## Exams and Tests

Other intestinal problems, such as irritable bowel syndrome, may cause the
same symptoms as lactose intolerance.

Tests to help diagnose lactose intolerance include:

    * Lactose-hydrogen breath test
    * Lactose tolerance test
    * Stool pH 

## Treatment

Cutting down your intake of milk products that contain lactose from your diet
most often eases symptoms. Also look at food labels for hidden sources of
lactose in nonmilk products (including some beers) and avoid these.

Most people with low lactase level can drink up to one half cup of milk at one
time (2 to 4 ounces or 60 to 120 milliliters) without having symptoms. Larger
servings (more than 8 ounces or 240 mL) may cause problems for people with the
deficiency.

Milk products that may be easier to digest include:

    * Buttermilk and cheeses (these foods contain less lactose than milk)
    * Fermented milk products, such as yogurt
    * Goat's milk
    * Aged hard cheeses
    * Lactose-free milk and milk products
    * Lactase-treated cow's milk for older children and adults
    * Soy formulas for infants younger than 2 years
    * Soy or rice milk for toddlers 

You can add lactase enzymes to regular milk. You can also take these enzymes
as capsules or chewable tablets. There are also many lactose-free dairy
products available.

Not having milk and other dairy products in your diet can lead to a shortage
of calcium, vitamin D, riboflavin, and protein. You need 1,000 to 1,500 mg of
calcium each day depending on your age and gender. Some things you can do to
get more calcium in your diet are:

    * Take calcium supplements with Vitamin D. Talk to your health care provider about which ones to choose.
    * Eat foods that have more calcium (such as leafy greens, oysters, sardines, canned salmon, shrimp, and broccoli).
    * Drink orange juice with added calcium. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms most often go away when you remove milk, other dairy products, and
other sources of lactose from your diet. Without dietary changes, infants or
children may have growth problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have an infant younger than 2 or 3 years old who has symptoms of lactose intolerance. 
    * Your child is growing slowly or not gaining weight. 
    * You or your child has symptoms of lactose intolerance and you need information about food substitutes. 
    * Your symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment. 
    * You develop new symptoms. 

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent lactose intolerance. You can prevent symptoms
by avoiding foods with lactose.

## Alternative Names

Lactase deficiency; Milk intolerance; Disaccharidase deficiency; Dairy product
intolerance; Diarrhea - lactose intolerance; Bloating - lactose intolerance

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Hogenauer C, Hammer HF. Maldigestion and malabsorption. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

The National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse (NDDIC) website.
Lactose intolerance. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-
diseases/lactose-intolerance/definition-facts. Updated February 2018. Accessed
July 2, 2018.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lactose
Intolerance](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LactoseIntolerance_thumb.jpg)Lactose
Intolerance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

