Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003500.htm    
                                Description: Lactose tolerance tests measure the ability of your intestines to break down a type of sugar called lactose. This sugar is found in milk and other dairy products. If your body cannot break down this sugar,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lactose tolerance tests

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003500.htm

# Lactose tolerance tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lactose tolerance tests measure the ability of your intestines to break down a
type of sugar called lactose. This sugar is found in milk and other dairy
products. If your body cannot break down this sugar, you are said to have
lactose intolerance. This can cause gassiness, abdominal pain, cramps, and
diarrhea.

## How the Test is Performed

Two common methods include:

    * Lactose tolerance blood test
    * Hydrogen breath test 

The hydrogen breath test is the preferred method. It measures the amount of
hydrogen in the air you breathe out.

    * You will be asked to breathe into a balloon-type container. 
    * You will then drink a flavored liquid containing lactose. 
    * Samples of your breath are taken at set times and the hydrogen level is checked. 
    * Normally, very little hydrogen is in your breath. But if your body has trouble breaking down and absorbing lactose, breath hydrogen levels increase.

The lactose tolerance blood test looks for glucose in your blood. Your body
creates glucose when lactose breaks down.

    * For this test, several blood samples will be taken before and after you drink a liquid containing lactose.
    * A blood sample will be taken from a vein in your arm (venipuncture).

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or do heavy exercise for 8 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

There should not be any pain or discomfort when giving a breath sample.

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel slight pain, while
others feel only a prick or stinging feeling. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order these tests if you have signs of lactose
intolerance.

## Normal Results

The breath test is considered normal if the increase in hydrogen is less than
20 parts per million (ppm) over your fasting (pre-test) level.

The blood test is considered normal if your glucose level rises more than 30
mg/dL (1.6 mmol/L) within 2 hours of drinking the lactose solution. A rise of
20 to 30 mg/dL (1.1 to 1.6 mmol/L) is inconclusive.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some labs use different measurements or may test different samples.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be a sign of lactose intolerance.

A breath test result that shows a rise in hydrogen content of 20 ppm over your
pre-test level is considered positive. This means you may have trouble
breaking down lactose.

The blood test is considered abnormal if your glucose level rises less than 20
mg/dL (1.1 mmol/L) within 2 hours of drinking the lactose solution.

An abnormal test should be followed by a glucose tolerance test. This will
rule out a problem with the body's ability to absorb glucose.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Hydrogen breath test for lactose tolerance

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Ferri FF. Lactose intolerance. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2018._ Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018: 812-812.e1.

Hogenauer C, Hammer HF. Maldigestion and malabsorption. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger & Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB, Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lactose
Intolerance](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LactoseIntolerance_thumb.jpg)Lactose
Intolerance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

