Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001447.htm    
                                Description: Xanthoma is a skin condition in which certain fats build up under the surface of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Xanthoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001447.htm

# Xanthoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Xanthoma is a skin condition in which certain fats build up under the surface
of the skin.

## Causes

Xanthomas are common, especially among older adults and people with high blood
lipids (fats). Xanthomas vary in size. Some are very small. Others are bigger
than 3 inches (7.5 centimeters) in diameter. They may appear anywhere on the
body. But, they are most often seen on the elbows, joints, tendons, knees,
hands, feet, or buttocks.

Xanthomas may be a sign of a medical condition that involves an increase in
blood lipids. Such conditions include:

    * Certain cancers
    * Diabetes
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * Inherited metabolic disorders, such as familial hypercholesterolemia
    * Scarring of the liver due to blocked bile ducts (primary biliary cirrhosis)
    * Inflammation and swelling of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
    * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) 

Xanthelasma palpebra is a common type of xanthoma that appears on the eyelids.
It usually occurs without any underlying medical condition.

## Symptoms

A xanthoma looks like a yellow to orange bump (papule) with defined borders.
There may be several individual ones or they may form clusters.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine the skin. Usually, a diagnosis can be
made by looking at the xanthoma. If needed, your provider will remove a sample
of the growth for testing (skin biopsy).

You may have blood tests done to check lipid levels, liver function, and for
diabetes.

## Treatment

If you have a disease that causes increased blood lipids, treating the
condition may help reduce the development of xanthomas.

If the growth bothers you, your provider may remove it by surgery or with a
laser. However, xanthomas may come back after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The growth is noncancerous and painless, but may be a sign of another medical
condition.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if xanthomas develop. They may indicate an underlying
disorder that needs treatment.

## Prevention

To reduce the development of xanthomas, you may need to control your blood
triglyceride and cholesterol levels.

## Alternative Names

Skin growths - fatty; Xanthelasma

## Images

    * ![Xanthoma, eruptive - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1554t.jpg)Xanthoma, eruptive - close-up
    * ![Xanthoma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1985t.jpg)Xanthoma - close-up
    * ![Xanthoma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2489t.jpg)Xanthoma - close-up
    * ![Xanthoma on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2490t.jpg)Xanthoma on the knee

## References

Habif TP. Cutaneous manifestations of internal disease. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Massengale WT. Xanthomas. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 92.

White LE, Horenstein MG, Shea CR. Xanthomas. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR,
Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 256.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Lipid
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

