Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000405.htm    
                                Description: Chylomicronemia syndrome is a disorder in which the body does not break down fats (lipids) correctly. This causes fat particles called chylomicrons to build up in the blood. The disorder is passed down    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chylomicronemia syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000405.htm

# Chylomicronemia syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chylomicronemia syndrome is a disorder in which the body does not break down
fats (lipids) correctly. This causes fat particles called chylomicrons to
build up in the blood. The disorder is passed down through families.

## Causes

Chylomicronemia syndrome can occur due to a rare genetic disorder in which a
protein (enzyme) called lipoprotein lipase (LpL) is broken or missing. It can
also be caused by the absence of second factor called apo C-II, which
activates LpL. LpL is normally found in fat and muscle. It helps break down
certain lipids. When LpL is missing or broken, fat particles called
chylomicrons build up in the blood. This buildup is called chylomicronemia.

Defects in apolipoprotein CII and apolipoprotein AV can cause the syndrome as
well. It is more likely to occur when people who are predisposed to have high
triglycerides (such as those who have familial combined hyperlipidemia or
familial hypertriglyceridemia) develop diabetes, obesity or are exposed to
certain medicines.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may start in infancy and include:

    * Abdominal pain due to pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas).
    * Symptoms of nerve damage, such as loss of feeling in the feet or legs, and memory loss.
    * Yellow deposits of fatty material in the skin called xanthomas. These growths may appear on the back, buttocks, soles of the feet, or knees and elbows.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam and tests may show:

    * Enlarged liver and spleen
    * Inflammation of the pancreas
    * Fatty deposits under the skin
    * Possibly fatty deposits in the retina of the eye 

A creamy layer will appear when blood spins in a laboratory machine. This
layerÂ is due to chylomicrons in the blood.

The triglyceride level is extremely high.

## Treatment

A fat-free, alcohol-free diet is required. You may need to stop taking certain
medicines that can make symptoms worse. Do not stop taking any medicine
without first talking to your health care provider. Conditions such as
dehydration and diabetes can make symptoms worse. If diagnosed, these
conditions need to be treated and controlled.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A fat-free diet can reduce symptoms dramatically.

## Possible Complications

When untreated, the excess chylomicrons may lead to bouts of pancreatitis.
This condition can be very painful and even life threatening. There seems to
be no increased risk for atherosclerotic heart disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical care right away if you have abdominal pain or other warning signs
of pancreatitis.

Call your provider if you have a personal or family history of high
triglyceride levels.

## Prevention

There is no way to preventÂ someone from inheriting thisÂ syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency; Familial hyperchylomicronemia
syndrome, Type I hyperlipidemia

## Images

    * ![Hepatomegaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9396t.jpg)Hepatomegaly

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Semenkovich, CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Lipid
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

