Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001666.htm    
                                Description: Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome is a rare disease passed down through families. The person is unable to fully absorb dietary fats through the intestines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001666.htm

# Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome is a rare disease passed down through families. The
person is unable to fully absorb dietary fats through the intestines.

## Causes

Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome is caused by a defect in a gene that tells the body
to create lipoproteins (molecules of fat combined with protein). The defect
makes it hard for the body to properly digest fat and essential vitamins.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Balance and coordination difficulties
    * Curvature of spine
    * Decreased vision that gets worse over time
    * Developmental delay
    * Failure to thrive (grow) in infancy
    * Muscle weakness
    * Poor muscle coordination that usually develops after age 10
    * Protruding abdomen
    * Slurred speech
    * Stool abnormalities, including fatty stools that appear pale in color, frothy stools, and abnormally foul-smelling stools

## Exams and Tests

There may be damage to the retina of the eye (retinitis pigmentosa).

Tests that may be done to help diagnose this condition include:

    * Apolipoprotein B blood test
    * Blood tests to look for vitamin deficiencies (fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K)
    * "Burr-cell" malformation of the red cells (acanthocytosis)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Cholesterol studies
    * Electromyography
    * Eye exam
    * Nerve conduction velocity
    * Stool sample analysis 

Genetic testing may be available for mutations in the _MTP_ gene.

## Treatment

Treatment involves large doses of vitamin supplements containing fat-soluble
vitamins (vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, and vitamin K).

Linoleic acid supplements are also recommended.

People with this condition should talk to a dietitian. Diet changes are needed
to prevent stomach problems. This may involve limiting intake of some types of
fat.

Supplements of medium-chain triglycerides are taken under the supervision of a
health care provider. They should be used with caution, because they may cause
liver damage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of brain and nervous system
problems.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Blindness
    * Mental deterioration
    * Loss of function of peripheral nerves, uncoordinated movement (ataxia)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your infant or child has symptoms of this disease.
Genetic counseling can help families understand the condition and the risks of
inheriting it, and learn how to care for the person.

## Prevention

High doses of fat-soluble vitamins may slow the progression of some problems,
such as retina damage and decreased vision.

## Alternative Names

Abetalipoproteinemia; Acanthocytosis; Apolipoprotein B deficiency

## References

Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Defects in
the metabolism in lipids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 104.

Shamir R. Disorders of malabsorption. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 364.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Lipid
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

