Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000408.htm    
                                Description: Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency is a group of rare genetic disorders in which a person lacks a protein needed to break down fat molecules. The disorder causes a large amount of fat to build up in    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000408.htm

# Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency is a group of rare genetic disorders in
which a person lacks a protein needed to break down fat molecules. The
disorder causes a large amount of fat to build up in the blood.

## Causes

Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency is caused by a defective gene that is
passed down through families.

People with this condition lack an enzyme called lipoprotein lipase. Without
this enzyme, the body cannot break down fat from digested food. Fat particles
called chylomicrons build up in the blood.

Risk factors include a family history of lipoprotein lipase deficiency.

The condition is usually first seen during infancy or childhood.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain (may appear as colic in infants)
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Pain in the muscles and bones
    * Enlarged liver and spleen
    * Failure to thrive in infants
    * Fatty deposits in the skin (xanthomas)
    * High triglyceride levels in the blood
    * Pale retinas and white-colored blood vessels in the retinas
    * Chronic inflammation of the pancreas
    * Yellowing of the eyes and skin (jaundice) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about the
symptoms.

Blood tests will be done to check cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
Sometimes, a special blood test is done after you are given blood thinners
through a vein. This test looks for lipoprotein lipase activity in your blood.

Genetic tests may be done.

## Treatment

Treatment aims to control the symptoms and blood triglyceride levels with a
very low-fat diet. Your provider will likely recommend that you eat no more
than 20 grams of fat per day to prevent the symptoms from coming back.

Twenty grams of fat is equal to one of the following:

    * Two 8-ounce (240 milliliters) glasses of whole milk
    * 4 teaspoons (9.5 grams) of margarine
    * 4 ounces (113 grams) serving of meat

The average American diet has a fat content of up to 45% of total calories.
Fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K and mineral supplements are recommended
for people who eat a very low-fat diet. You may want to discuss your diet
needs with yourÂ provider and a registered dietitian.

Pancreatitis that is related to lipoprotein lipase deficiency responds to
treatments for that disorder.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on familial lipoprotein lipase
deficiency:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/familial-lipoprotein-lipase-deficiency
    * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/familial-lipoprotein-lipase-deficiency

## Outlook (Prognosis)

PeopleÂ with this condition who follow a very low-fat diet can live into
adulthood.

## Possible Complications

Pancreatitis and recurrent episodes of abdominal pain may develop.

Xanthomas are not usually painful unless they are rubbed a lot.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider for screening if someone in your family has lipoprotein
lipase deficiency. Genetic counseling is recommended for anyone with a family
history of this disease.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for this rare, inherited disorder. Awareness of
risks may allow early detection. Following a very low-fat diet can improve the
symptoms of this disease.

## Alternative Names

Type I hyperlipoproteinemia; Familial chylomicronemia;Â Familial LPL
deficiency

## Images

    * ![Coronary artery disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8755t.jpg)Coronary artery disease

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Semenkovich CF, Goldberg AC, Goldberg IJ. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 37.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Lipid
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

