Link: https://medlineplus.gov/quittingsmoking.html    
                                Description: Quitting smoking is important for your health. Tobacco use is the most common preventable cause of death. Find the best way for you to quit.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Quitting Smoking

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/quittingsmoking.html

#  Quitting Smoking

Also called: Smoking cessation

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Tobacco use is the most common preventable cause of death. About half of the
people who don't quit smoking will die of smoking-related problems. Quitting
smoking is important for your health.

Soon after you quit, your circulation begins to improve, and your blood
pressure starts to return to normal. Your sense of smell and taste return, and
it's easier for you to breathe. In the long term, giving up tobacco can help
you live longer. Your risk of getting cancer decreases with each year you stay
smoke-free.

Quitting is not easy. You may have short-term effects such as weight gain,
irritability, and anxiety. Some people try several times before they succeed.
There are many ways to quit smoking. Some people stop "cold turkey." Others
benefit from step-by-step manuals, counseling, or medicines or products that
help reduce nicotine addiction. Some people think that switching to
e-cigarettes can help you quit smoking, but that has not been proven. Your
health care provider can help you find the best way for you to quit.

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * BeTobaccoFree.gov (Department of Health and Human Services)
    * Cigarette Smoking: Health Risks and How to Quit (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Create My Quit Plan ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch) Also in Spanish
    * Harms of Smoking and Health Benefits of Quitting ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * How to Quit Smoking or Smokeless Tobacco (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Quit Smoking ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion)
    * Smokefree.gov ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Smoking and Tobacco Use: How to Quit (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * 5 Things to Know about Complementary Health Approaches for Quitting Smoking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Fact or Fiction: What to Know About Smoking Cessation and Medications (Food and Drug Administration)
    * Using Medications Can Help You Quit ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)

## Living With

    * Helping a Smoker Quit: Do's and Don'ts (American Cancer Society)
    * How to Handle Withdrawal Symptoms and Triggers When You Decide to Quit Smoking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Managing Withdrawal ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Quitting Smoking - Help for Cravings and Tough Situations (American Cancer Society)

## Related Issues

    * Fight Cravings with Exercise (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Weight Management ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * What's in a Cigarette? (American Lung Association)

## Specifics

    * Depression and Smoking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Smoking Cessation in Recovering Alcoholics (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

    * Quiz: How Strong is Your Nicotine Addiction? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Smoking Habits Quiz (American Cancer Society)

## Statistics and Research

    * CDC Vital Signs: Adult Smoking among People with Mental Illness (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Complementary Health Approaches for Smoking Cessation: What the Science Says ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Quitting Smoking (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Smoking Cessation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Efficacy of a group tobacco cessation behavioral intervention among tobacco users...

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * American Lung Association
    * Lung HelpLine and Tobacco QuitLine (American Lung Association)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * How Can I Quit Smoking? ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Pregnant? Don't Smoke! (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Smokefree Women ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Smoking - Medicines to Help You Quit ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)

## Older Adults

    * Quitting Smoking for Older Adults ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Dispelling Myths about Nicotine Replacement Therapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) \- PDF
    * Nicotine addiction and withdrawal (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Nicotine replacement therapy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking and surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking cessation medications (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Stop smoking support programs (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Weight gain after quitting smoking: What to do (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Quitting Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/QuittingSmoking.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * How to stop smoking: Dealing with a slip up
    * How to stop smoking: Dealing with cravings
    * Nicotine addiction and withdrawal
    * Nicotine replacement therapy
    * Smoking - tips on how to quit
    * Smoking and surgery
    * Smoking cessation medications
    * Stop smoking support programs
    * Weight gain after quitting smoking: What to do

## Related Health Topics

    * Smoking

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Quitting Smoking is the National
Cancer Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Quitting Smoking_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

