Link: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/gluten-and-celiac-disease/    
                                Description: Gluten: it&#39;s all over the news, but what is it? And how can it make you sick if you have celiac disease?    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Videos ->

Gluten and Celiac Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/gluten-and-
celiac-disease/

# Gluten and Celiac Disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play Video

For closed captioning, click the CC button on the lower right-hand corner of
the player.

Video player keyboard shortcuts

## Video Outline

0:10 Where can gluten be found?

0:37 What is celiac disease?

0:46 Prevalence of celiac disease

0:57 Celiac disease mechanism and pathology

1:17 Celiac disease symptoms

1:39 Celiac disease complications

1:47 Celiac disease diagnosis

2:10 Celiac disease treatment

2:30 NIDDK

  

## Transcript

 **Gluten and Celiac Disease**

From NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

Gluten: Itâs all over the news, but what is it? And where can it be found?

Gluten is a protein.

It is found naturally in some grains, such as wheat, barley and rye.

Nope not you, rice.Â

Common food products that have gluten include pastas, cereal and bread.

Sometimes gluten can also sneak its way into products like vitamins and
supplements, lip balms, and some hair and skin products.Â

Shh.

Most people do not have a problem with gluten. But some people cannot eat it
because of an autoimmune disorder called celiac disease. The gluten makes them
feel sick.

Celiac disease sometimes is hereditary, meaning it runs in families. It is
also very common: as many as 1 out of every 141 people in the United States
has celiac disease.Â

But most people who have celiac disease donât even know they have it.

In celiac disease, gluten can trigger the immune system to attack the small
intestine.Â

Immune cells damage small, fingerlike growths in the small intestine called
villi, and the brushy intestinal lining becomes flattened.

When the villi are damaged, the body cannot get the nutrients it needs.Â

The immune systemâs reaction can lead to other health problems as well.

Symptoms of celiac disease in adults may include:

    * Headaches
    * depression or anxiety
    * tiredness
    * bone or joint pain
    * a very itchy skin rash with blisters called dermatitis herpetiformis

and in children:Â

    * stomach painÂ 
    * nausea & vomitingÂ 
    * slowed growthÂ 
    * delayed puberty 

If untreated, celiac disease can lead to serious complications like anemia,
infertility, and weak and brittle bones.

Celiac disease can be difficult to diagnose because it looks like many other
diseases.Â

If your doctor thinks you might have celiac disease, you may need a blood
test, looking for antibody markers like tTGA and EMA.Â

The diagnosis can also be confirmed with a biopsy. Â A tiny tissue sample is
obtained under anesthesia using a thin tube called an endoscope.

The good news is that there is a treatment: following a gluten-free diet.

Patients need to learn what to eat and what to avoid, and to read nutrition
labels carefully.

For most people, following this diet will fix the symptoms and heal damage to
the small intestine!

But for some people, diet alone doesnât work. Finding hidden sources of
gluten you may still be eating or using can help.

Through the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases,
the NIH supports research to learn more about celiac disease. Â

Find out more about celiac disease and other topics at NIH MedlinePlus the
Magazine. medlineplus.gov/magazine/

You can also search online for âNIDDK Celiac Diseaseâ or visit
www.niddk.nih.gov.Â

## Video Information

 **Published September 19, 2017**

View this video on the MedlinePlus playlist at the U.S. National Library of
Medicine YouTube channel at: https://youtu.be/A9pbzFAqaho

 **ANIMATION:** Jeff DayÂ

**NARRATION:** Charles Lipper

## Related Health Topics

    * Celiac Disease
    * Gluten Sensitivity

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 April 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

