Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001480.htm    
                                Description: Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is a very itchy rash consisting of bumps and blisters. The rash is chronic (long-term).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dermatitis herpetiformis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001480.htm

# Dermatitis herpetiformis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is a very itchy rash consisting of bumps and
blisters. The rash is chronic (long-term).

## Causes

DH usually begins in people age 20 and older. Children can sometimes be
affected. It is seen in both men and women.

The exact cause is unknown. Despite the name, it is not related to the herpes
virus. DH is an autoimmune disorder. There is a strong link between DH and
celiac disease. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disorder that causes
inflammation in the small intestine from eating gluten. People with DH also
have a sensitivity to gluten, which causes the skin rash. About 25% of people
with celiac disease also have DH.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Extremely itchy bumps or blisters, most often on the elbows, knees, back, and buttocks.
    * Rashes that are usually the same size and shape on both sides.
    * The rash can look like eczema.
    * Scratch marks and skin erosions instead of blisters in some people.Â 

Most people withÂ DH have damage to their intestines from eating gluten. But
only some have intestinal symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, a skin biopsy and direct immunofluorescence test of the skin
are performed. The health care provider may also recommend a biopsy of the
intestines. Blood tests may be ordered to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

An antibiotic called dapsone is very effective.

A strict gluten-free diet will also be recommended to help control the
disease. Sticking to this diet may eliminate the need for medicines and
prevent later complications.

Drugs that supress the immune system may be used, but are less effective.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease may be well-controlled with treatment. Without treatment, there
may be a significant risk of intestinal cancer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Autoimmune thyroid disease
    * Develop certain cancers, especially lymphomas of the intestines
    * Side effects of the drugs used to treat DH 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a rash that continues despite treatment.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention of this disease. People with this condition may
be able to prevent complications by avoiding foods that contain gluten.

## Alternative Names

Duhring disease; DH

## Images

    * ![Dermatitis, herpetiformis - close-up of lesion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1406t.jpg)Dermatitis, herpetiformis - close-up of lesion
    * ![Dermatitis - herpetiformis on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2394t.jpg)Dermatitis - herpetiformis on the knee
    * ![Dermatitis - herpetiformis on the arm and legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2400t.jpg)Dermatitis - herpetiformis on the arm and legs
    * ![Dermatitis herpetiformis on the thumb](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2674t.jpg)Dermatitis herpetiformis on the thumb
    * ![Dermatitis herpetiformis on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2679t.jpg)Dermatitis herpetiformis on the hand
    * ![Dermatitis herpetiformis on the forearm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2791t.jpg)Dermatitis herpetiformis on the forearm

## References

Hull CM, Zone JJ. Dermatitis herpetiformis and linear IgA bullous dermatosis.
In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 31.

Kelly CP. Celiac disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 107.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Celiac
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CeliacDisease_thumb.jpg)Celiac Disease
_Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

