Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/celiac-disease-screening/    
                                Description: A celiac disease test is a blood test that screens for celiac disease. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disorder that causes an allergic reaction to gluten, a protein found in wheat, barley, and rye. Celiac disease can seriously damage your small intestine. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Celiac Disease Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/celiac-disease-screening/

# Celiac Disease Screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a celiac disease test?

Celiac disease is an autoimmune disorder that causes a serious allergic
reaction to gluten. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, and rye. It's
also found in certain products, including some toothpastes, lipsticks, and
medicines. A celiac disease test looks for antibodies to gluten in the blood.
Antibodies are disease-fighting substances made by the immune system.

Normally, your immune system attacks things like viruses and bacteria. If you
have celiac disease, eating gluten makes your immune system attack the lining
of the small intestine, as if it were a harmful substance. This can damage
your digestive system and may prevent you from getting the nutrients you need.

Other names: celiac disease antibody test, anti-tissue transglutaminase
antibody (anti-tTG), deaminated gliadin peptide antibodies, anti-endomysial
antibodies

## What is it used for?

A celiac disease test is used to:

    * Diagnose celiac disease
    * Monitor celiac disease
    * See if a gluten-free diet is relieving symptoms of celiac disease

## Why do I need a celiac disease test?

You may need a celiac disease test if you have symptoms of celiac disease.
Symptoms are different for children and adults.

Symptoms of celiac disease in children include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Abdominal bloating
    * Constipation
    * Chronic diarrhea and foul-smelling stool
    * Weight loss and/or failure to gain weight
    * Delayed puberty
    * Irritable behavior

Symptoms of celiac disease in adults include digestive problems such as:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Chronic diarrhea
    * Unexplained weight loss
    * Decreased appetite
    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloating and gas

Many adults with celiac disease have symptoms that are not related to
digestion. These include:

    * Iron-deficient anemia
    * An itchy rash called dermatitis herpetiformis
    * Mouth sores
    * Bone loss
    * Depression or anxiety
    * Fatigue
    * Headaches
    * Missed menstrual periods
    * Tingling in the hands and/or feet

If you don't have symptoms, you may need a celiac test if you are at higher
risk of having the disease. You are more likely to have celiac disease if a
close family member has celiac disease. You may also be at higher risk if you
have another autoimmune disorder, such as type 1 diabetes.

## What happens during a celiac disease test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

If the test is being used to diagnose celiac disease, you'll need to continue
to eat foods with gluten for a few weeks before testing. Your health care
provider will give you specific instructions about how to prepare for the
test.

If the test is being used to monitor celiac disease, you don't need any
special preparations.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

There are different types of celiac disease antibodies. Your celiac test
results may include information on more than one type of antibody. Typical
results may show one of the following:

    * Negative: You probably don't have celiac disease.
    * Positive: You probably do have celiac disease.
    * Uncertain or indeterminate: It's unclear whether you have celiac disease.

If your results were positive or uncertain, your provider may order a test
called an intestinal biopsy to confirm or rule out celiac disease. During an
intestinal biopsy, a health care provider will use a special tool called an
endoscope to take a small piece of tissue from your small intestine.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a celiac disease test?

Most people with celiac disease can reduce and often eliminate symptoms if
they keep a strict gluten-free diet. Although many gluten-free products are
available today, it can still be challenging to completely avoid gluten. Your
health care provider may refer you to a dietician who can help you enjoy a
healthy diet without gluten.

## References

    1. American Gastroenterological Association [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): American Gastroenterological Association; c2018. Understanding Celiac Disease [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.gastro.org/patient-center/brochure_Celiac.pdf
    2. Celiac Disease Foundation [Internet]. Woodland Hills (CA): Celiac Disease Foundation; c1998â2018. Celiac Disease Screening and Diagnosis [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://celiac.org/celiac-disease/understanding-celiac-disease-2/diagnosing-celiac-disease
    3. Celiac Disease Foundation [Internet]. Woodland Hills (CA): Celiac Disease Foundation; c1998â2018. Celiac Disease Symptoms [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://celiac.org/celiac-disease/understanding-celiac-disease-2/celiacdiseasesymptoms
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Autoimmune Disorders [updated 2018 Apr 18; cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/autoimmune-diseases
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Celiac Disease Antibody Tests [updated 2018 Apr 26; cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/celiac-disease-antibody-tests
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Celiac Disease: Diagnosis and Treatment; 2018 Mar 6 [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/celiac-disease/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20352225
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Celiac Disease: Symptoms and Causes; 2018 Mar 6 [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/celiac-disease/symptoms-causes/syc-20352220
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Celiac Disease [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/digestive-disorders/malabsorption/celiac-disease
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    10. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Definitions and Facts for Celiac Disease; 2016 Jun [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/celiac-disease/definition-facts
    11. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Treatment for Celiac Disease; 2016 Jun [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/celiac-disease/treatment
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2018. Celiac diseaseâsprue: Overview [updated 2018 Apr 27; cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/celiac-disease-sprue
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Anti-tissue Transglutaminase Antibody [cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=antitissue_transglutaminase_antibody
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Celiac Disease Antibodies: How To Prepare [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/celiac-disease-antibodies/abq4989.html#abq4992
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Celiac Disease Antibodies: Results [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/celiac-disease-antibodies/abq4989.html#abq4996
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Celiac Disease Antibodies: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/celiac-disease-antibodies/abq4989.html#abq4990
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Celiac Disease Antibodies: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Apr 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/celiac-disease-antibodies/abq4989.html#abq4991

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Celiac Disease
    * Digestive Diseases
    * Gluten Sensitivity
    * Immune System and Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Allergy Blood Test
    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 15 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

