Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002443.htm    
                                Description: Celiac disease is an immune disorder passed down through families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Celiac disease - nutritional considerations

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002443.htm

# Celiac disease - nutritional considerations

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Celiac disease is an immune disorder passed down through families.

Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, rye, or sometimes oats. It may
also be found in some medicines. When a person with celiac disease eats or
drinks anything containing gluten, the immune system responds by damaging the
lining of the intestinal tract. This affects the body's ability to absorb
nutrients.

Carefully following a gluten-free diet helps prevent symptoms of the disease.

## Food Sources

To follow a gluten-free diet means, you need to avoid all foods, drinks, and
medicines made with gluten. This means not eating anything made with barley,
rye, and wheat. All items made with all-purpose, white, or wheat flour are
prohibited.

FOODS YOU CAN EAT

    * Beans
    * Cereals made without wheat or barley malt
    * Corn
    * Fruits and vegetables
    * Meat, poultry, and fish (not breaded or made with regular gravies)
    * Milk-based items
    * Gluten-free oats
    * Potatoes
    * Rice
    * Gluten-free products such as crackers, pasta, and breads  

Obvious sources of gluten include:

    * Breaded foods
    * Breads, bagels, croissants, and buns
    * Cakes, donuts, and pies
    * Cereals (most)
    * Crackers and many snacks bought at the store, such as potato chips and tortilla chips
    * Gravy
    * Pancakes and waffles
    * Pasta and pizzaÂ (other than gluten-free pasta and pizza crust)
    * Soups (most)
    * Stuffing

Less obvious foods that must be eliminated include:

    * Beer
    * Candies (some)
    * Cold cuts, hot dogs, salami or sausage
    * Communion breads
    * Croutons
    * Some marinades, sauces, soy, and teriyaki sauces
    * Salad dressings (some)
    * Self-basting turkey

There is a risk for cross-contamination. Items that are naturally gluten-free
may become contaminated if they are made on the same production line, or moved
together in the same place, as foods containing gluten.

Eating at restaurants, work, school, and social gatherings can be challenging.
Call ahead and plan. Due to the widespread use of wheat and barley in foods,
it is important to read labels before buying food or eating.

Despite its challenges, maintaining a healthy, balanced diet is possible with
education and planning.

## Recommendations

Talk to a registered dietitian who specializes in celiac disease and the
gluten-free diet to help you plan your diet.

You may also want to join a local support group. These groups can help people
with celiac disease share practical advice on ingredients, baking, and ways to
cope with this life-altering, lifelong disease.

Your health care provider might you take a multivitamin and mineral or an
individual nutrient supplement to correct or prevent a deficiency.

## Alternative Names

Gluten-free diet; Gluten sensitive enteropathy - diet; Celiac sprue - diet

## Images

    * ![Celiac sprue - foods to avoid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19292t.jpg)Celiac sprue - foods to avoid

## References

Kelly CP. Celiac disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 107.

Rubio-Tapia A, Hill ID, Kelly CP, Calderwood AH, Murray JA; American College
of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guidelines: diagnosis and management of
celiac disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(5):656-676. PMID: 23609613
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23609613.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Celiac
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CeliacDisease_thumb.jpg)Celiac Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

