Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000813.htm    
                                Description: On a gluten-free diet, you do not eat wheat, rye, and barley. These foods contain gluten, a type of protein. A gluten-free diet is the main treatment for celiac disease. Some people believe a gluten-free    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Learn about gluten-free diets

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000813.htm

# Learn about gluten-free diets

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

On a gluten-free diet, you do not eat wheat, rye, and barley. These foods
contain gluten, a type of protein. A gluten-free diet is the main treatment
for celiac disease. Some people believe a gluten-free diet can also help
improve other health problems, but there is little research to support this
idea.

## Reasons to Avoid Gluten

People follow a gluten-free diet for a number of reasons:

 **Celiac disease.** People with this condition cannot eat gluten because it
triggers an immune response that damages the lining of their GI tract. This
response causes inflammation in the small intestine and makes it hard for the
body to absorb nutrients in food. Symptoms include bloating, constipation, and
diarrhea.

 **Gluten sensitivity.** People with gluten sensitivity do not have celiac
disease. Eating gluten causes many of the same symptoms as in celiac disease,
without the stomach damage.

 **Gluten intolerance.** This describes people who have symptoms and may or
may not have celiac disease. Symptoms include cramping, bloating, nausea, and
diarrhea.

If you have one of these conditions, a gluten-free diet will help control your
symptoms. It also helps prevent health problems in people with celiac disease.
If you suspect you have one of these conditions, talk with your health care
provider before making any diet changes.

 **Other health claims.** Some people go gluten-free because they believe it
can help control health problems such as headaches, depression, long-term
(chronic) fatigue, and weight gain. However, these claims are unproven.

Because you cut out a whole group of foods, a gluten-free diet _can_ cause you
to lose weight. However, there are easier diets to follow for weight loss.
People with celiac disease often gain weight because their symptoms improve.

## How it Works

On this diet, you need to learn which foods contain gluten and avoid them.
This is not easy, because gluten is in many foods and food products.

Many foods are naturally gluten-free, including:

    * Fruits and vegetables
    * Meat, fish, poultry, and eggs
    * Beans
    * Nuts and seeds
    * Dairy products 

Other grains and starches are fine to eat, as long as they do not come boxed
with seasonings:

    * Quinoa
    * Amaranth
    * Buckwheat
    * Cornmeal
    * Millet
    * Rice 

You can also buy gluten-free versions of foods such as bread, flour, crackers,
and cereals. These products are made with rice and other gluten-free flours.
Keep in mind that they are often higher in sugar and calories and lower in
fiber than the foods they replace.

## Off-Limit Foods

When following this diet, you must avoid foods that contain gluten:

    * Wheat
    * Barley (this includes malt, malt flavoring, and malt vinegar)
    * Rye
    * Triticale (a grain that is a cross between wheat and rye)

You must also avoid these foods, which contain wheat:

    * Bulgur
    * Couscous
    * Durum flour
    * Farina
    * Graham flour
    * Kamut
    * Semolina
    * Spelt

Note that "wheat free" does not always mean gluten free. Many foods contain
gluten or traces of wheat. Read the label and only buy "gluten free" options
of:

    * Bread and other baked goods
    * Pastas
    * Cereals
    * Crackers
    * Beer
    * Soy sauce
    * Seitan
    * Breading
    * Battered or deep-fried foods
    * Oats
    * Packaged foods, including frozen foods, soups, and rice mixes
    * Salad dressings, sauces, marinades, and gravies
    * Some candies, licorice
    * Some medicines and vitamins (gluten is used to bind the pill ingredients together)

## The Role of Exercise

A gluten-free diet is a way of eating, so exercise is not included as part of
the plan. However, you should exercise for at least 30 minutes a day on most
days for good health.

## Health Benefits

People with celiac disease must follow a gluten-free diet to prevent damage to
their intestines.

Avoiding gluten will not improve your heart health if you do not eat healthy
foods. Be sure to substitute plenty of whole grains, fruit, and vegetables in
place of gluten.

## Possible Health Concerns

Many foods made with wheat flour are fortified with vitamins and minerals.
Cutting out wheat and other grains can leave you short of nutrients like
these:

    * Calcium
    * Fiber
    * Folate
    * Iron
    * Niacin
    * Riboflavin
    * Thiamin 

To get all the vitamins and minerals you need, eat a variety of healthy foods.
Working with your provider or a dietitian can also help ensure you get proper
nutrition.

## Ease of Use

Because so many foods contain gluten, this can be a hard diet to follow. It
can feel limiting when you shop or eat out. However, as the diet has become
more popular, gluten-free foods have become available in more stores. Also,
many restaurants are now offering gluten-free meals.

## Where to Find More Information

The National Institutes of Health has a Celiac Awareness Campaign at
celiac.nih.gov with information and resources.

You can find information on celiac disease, gluten sensitivity, and gluten-
free cooking from these organizations:

    * Beyond Celiac -- www.beyondceliac.org
    * Celiac Disease Foundation -- celiac.org

There are also a number of books on gluten-free eating. Your best bet is to
find one written by a dietitian.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you think you may have celiac disease or gluten sensitivity, talk with your
provider. You should be tested for celiac disease, which is a serious
condition.

If you have symptoms of gluten sensitivity or intolerance, DO NOT stop eating
gluten without first getting tested for celiac disease. You may have a
different health condition that a gluten-free diet cannot treat. Also,
following a gluten-free diet for several months or years may make it more
difficult to accurately diagnose celiac disease. If you stop eating gluten
before being tested, it will affect the results.

## Alternative Names

Celiac and gluten

## References

Green PH, Lebwohl B, Greywoode R. Celiac disease. _J Allergy Clin Immunol_.
2015;135(5):1099-1106. PMID: 25956012 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25956012.

Kelly CP. Celiac disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 107.

Rubio-Tapia A, Hill ID, Kelly CP, Calderwood AH, Murray JA; American College
of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guidelines: diagnosis and management of
celiac disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(5):656-676. PMID: 23609613
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23609613.

Skodje GI, Sarna VK, Minelle IH, et al. Fructan, rather than gluten, induces
symptoms in patients with self-reported non-celiac gluten sensitivity.
_Gastroenterology_. 2018;154(3):529-539. PMID: 29102613
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29102613.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Celiac Disease
    * Gluten Sensitivity

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

