Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003606.htm    
                                Description: D-xylose absorption is a laboratory test to check how well the intestines absorb a simple sugar (D-xylose). The test helps detect if nutrients are being properly absorbed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

D-xylose absorption

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003606.htm

# D-xylose absorption

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

D-xylose absorption is a laboratory test to check how well the intestines
absorb a simple sugar (D-xylose). The test helps detect if nutrients are being
properly absorbed.

## How the Test is Performed

The test requires a blood and urine sample. These tests include:

    * Clean catch urine specimen
    * Venipuncture (blood draw)

There are several ways to perform this test. A typical procedure is described
below, but make sure you follow the specific instructions you are given.

You will be asked to drink 8 ounces (240 ml) of water that contains 25 grams
of a sugar called d-xylose. The amount of d-xylose that comes out in your
urine over the next 5 hours will be measured. You may have a blood sample
collected at 1 and 3 hours after drinking the liquid. In some cases, the
sample may be collected every hour. The amount of urine you produce over a
5-hour period is also checked. Your health care provider will tell you how to
collect all of the urine during a 5-hour period.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Do not eat or drink anything (even water) for 8 to 12 hours before the test.
Your provider will ask you to rest during the test. A failure to restrict
activity may affect test results.

Your provider may tell you to stop taking certain medicines that can affect
test results. Medicines that can affect test results include aspirin,
atropine, indomethacin, isocarboxazid, and phenelzine. DO NOT stop taking any
medicine without first talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, you may feel moderate pain, or only
a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

Urine is collected as part of normal urination with no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have:

    * Persistent diarrhea
    * Signs of malnutrition
    * Unexplained weight loss 

This test is primarily used to check if nutrient absorption problems are due
to a disease of the intestines.

## Normal Results

A normal result depends on how much D-xylose is given. In most cases, the test
results are either positive or negative. A positive result means that D-xylose
is found in the blood or urine and is therefore being absorbed by the
intestines.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to yourÂ provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Lower than normal values may be seen in:

    * Celiac disease (sprue)
    * Crohn disease
    * Giardia lamblia infestation
    * Hookworm infestation
    * Lymphatic obstruction
    * Radiation enteropathy
    * Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
    * Viral gastroenteritis
    * Whipple disease

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

Multiple tests may be necessary to determine the reason for malabsorption.

## Alternative Names

Xylose tolerance test; Diarrhea - xylose; Malnutrition - xylose; Sprue -
xylose; Celiac - xylose

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system
    * ![D-xylose level tests](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9285t.jpg)D-xylose level tests

## References

Hogenauer C, Hammer HF. Maldigestion and malabsorption. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 1/12/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Celiac
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CeliacDisease_thumb.jpg)Celiac Disease
_Read more_

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![Gastroenteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gastroenteritis_thumb.jpg)Gastroenteritis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

