Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000785.htm    
                                Description: Wilson disease is an inherited disorder in which there is too much copper in the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wilson disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000785.htm

# Wilson disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Wilson disease is an inherited disorder in which there is too much copper in
the body's tissues. The excess copper damages the liver and nervous system.

## Causes

Wilson disease is a rare inherited disorder. If both parents carry a defective
gene for Wilson disease, there is a 25% chance in each pregnancy that the
child will have the disorder.

Wilson disease causes the body to take in and keep too much copper. The copper
deposits in the liver, brain, kidneys, and eyes. This causes tissue damage,
tissue death, and scarring. The affected organs stop working normally.

This condition is most common in eastern Europeans, Sicilians, and southern
Italians, but it may occur in any group. Wilson disease typically appears in
people under 40 years old. In children, the symptoms begin to show by age 4.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abnormal posture of arms and legs
    * Arthritis
    * Confusion or delirium
    * Dementia
    * Difficulty moving arms and legs, stiffness
    * Difficulty walking (ataxia)
    * Emotional or behavioral changes
    * Enlargement of the abdomen due to accumulation of fluid (ascites)
    * Personality changes
    * Phobias, distress (neuroses)
    * Slow movements
    * Slow or decreased movement and expressions of the face
    * Speech impairment
    * Tremors of the arms or hands
    * Uncontrollable movement
    * Unpredictable and jerky movement
    * Vomiting blood
    * Weakness
    * Yellow skin (jaundice) or yellow color of the white of the eye (icterus)

## Exams and Tests

A slit-lamp eye exam may show:

    * Limited eye movement
    * Rusty or brown-colored ring around the iris (Kayser-Fleischer rings)

A physical exam may show signs of:

    * Damage to the central nervous system, including loss of coordination, loss of muscle control, muscle tremors, loss of thinking and IQ, loss of memory, and confusion (delirium or dementia)
    * Liver or spleen disorders (including hepatomegaly andÂ splenomegaly)

Lab tests may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Serum ceruloplasmin
    * Serum copper
    * Serum uric acid
    * Urine copper

If there are liver problems, lab tests may find:

    * High AST and ALT
    * High bilirubin
    * High PT and PTT
    * Low albumin

Other tests may include:

    * 24-hour urine copper test
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Abdominal MRI
    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * Head CT scan
    * Head MRI
    * Liver biopsy
    * Upper GI endoscopy

The gene that causes Wilson disease has been found. It is called _ATP7B_. DNA
testing is available for this gene. Talk to your health care provider or a
genetic counselor if you would like to have gene testing performed.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce the amount of copper in the tissues. This
is done by a procedure called chelation. Certain medicines are given that bind
to copper and help remove it through the kidneys or gut. Treatment must be
lifelong.

The following medicines may be used:

    * Penicillamine (such as Cuprimine, Depen) binds to copper and leads to increased release of copper in the urine.
    * Trientine (such as Syprine) binds (chelates) the copper and increases its release through the urine.
    * Zinc acetate (such as Galzin) blocks copper from being absorbed in the intestinal tract.Â 

Vitamin E supplements may also be used.

Sometimes, medicines that chelate copper (such as penicillamine) can affect
the function of the brain and nervous system (neurological function). Other
medicines under investigation may bind copper without affecting neurological
function.

A low-copper diet may also be recommended. Foods to avoid include:

    * Chocolate
    * Dried fruit
    * Liver
    * Mushrooms
    * Nuts
    * Shellfish

You may want to drink distilled water because most tap water flows through
copper pipes. Avoid using copper cooking utensils.

Symptoms may be managed with exercise or physical therapy. People who are
confused or unable to care for themselves may need special protective
measures.

A liver transplant may be considered in cases where the liver is severely
damaged by the disease.

## Support Groups

Wilson disease support groups can be found at www.wilsonsdisease.org and
www.geneticalliance.org.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Life-long treatment is needed to control Wilson disease. The disorder may
cause fatal effects, such as loss of liver function. Copper can have toxic
effects on the nervous system. In cases where the disorder is not fatal,
symptoms may be disabling.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Anemia (hemolytic anemia is rare)
    * Central nervous system complications
    * Cirrhosis
    * Death of liver tissues
    * Fatty liver
    * Hepatitis
    * Increased chances of bone fractures
    * Increased number of infections
    * Injury caused by falls
    * Jaundice
    * Joint contractures or other deformity
    * Loss of ability to care for self
    * Loss of ability to function at work and home
    * Loss of ability to interact with other people
    * Loss of muscle mass (muscle atrophy)
    * Psychological complications
    * Side effects of penicillamine and other medicines used to treat the disorder
    * Spleen problems 

Liver failure and damage to the central nervous system (brain, spinal cord)
are the most common and dangerous effects of the disorder. If the disease is
not caught and treated early, it can be fatal.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of Wilson disease. Call a genetic
counselor if you have a history of Wilson disease in your family and you are
planning to have children.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for people with a family history of Wilson
disease.

## Alternative Names

Wilson's disease; Hepatolenticular degeneration

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Copper urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9222t.jpg)Copper urine test
    * ![Liver anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8848t.jpg)Liver anatomy

## References

Cox DW, Roberts EA. Wilson disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 76.

Ferri FF. Wilson's disease. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2018_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018: 1479.e9-1479.e10.

Kaler SG, Schilsky ML. Wilson disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 211.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Wilson disease. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/liver-disease/wilson-
disease. Updated July 2014. Accessed August 29, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Wilson
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WilsonDisease_thumb.jpg)Wilson Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

