Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003662.htm    
                                Description: The ceruloplasmin test measures the level of the copper-containing protein ceruloplasmin in the blood.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ceruloplasmin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003662.htm

# Ceruloplasmin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ceruloplasmin test measures the level of the copper-containing protein
ceruloplasmin in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Ceruloplasmin is made in the liver. Ceruloplasmin stores and transports copper
in the blood to parts of the body that need it.

Your health care provider may order this test if you have signs or symptoms of
a copper metabolism or copper storage disorder.

## Normal Results

The normal range for adults is 14 to 40 mg/dL (0.93 to 2.65 Âµmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A lower-than-normal ceruloplasmin levels may be due to:

    * Long-term (chronic) liver disease
    * Problem absorbing nutrients from food (intestinal malabsorption)
    * Malnutrition
    * Disorder in which cells in the body can absorb copper, but are unable to release it (Menkes syndrome)
    * Group of disorders that damage the kidneys (nephrotic syndrome)
    * Inherited disorder in which there is too much copper in the body's tissues (Wilson disease)

A higher-than-normalÂ ceruloplasmin levels may be due to:

    * Acute and chronic infections
    * Cancer (breast orÂ lymphoma)
    * Heart disease, including heart attack  

    * Overactive thyroidÂ   

    * Pregnancy
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Use of birth control pills

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the other.
Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

CP - serum; Copper - ceruloplasmin

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Ceruloplasmin (CP)Â - serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:321.

McPherson RA. Specific proteins. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Wilson
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WilsonDisease_thumb.jpg)Wilson Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

