Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003604.htm    
                                Description: The 24-hour urine copper test measures the amount of copper in a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

24-hour urine copper test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003604.htm

# 24-hour urine copper test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The 24-hour urine copper test measures the amount of copper in a urine sample.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is needed.

    * On day 1, urinate into the toilet when you get up in the morning.
    * Afterward, collect all urine in a special container for the next 24 hours.
    * On day 2, urinate into the container when you get up in the morning.
    * Cap the container. Keep it in the refrigerator or a cool place during the collection period.

Label the container with your name, the date, the time of completion, and
return it as instructed.

For an infant, thoroughly wash the area where urine exits the body.

    * Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).
    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the labia.
    * Diaper as usual over the secured bag.

This procedure may take more than one try. An active infant can move the bag,
so that the urine leaks into the diaper.

Check the infant often and change the bag after the infant has urinated into
it.

Drain the urine from the bag into the container given to you by your health
care provider.

Return the bag or container as instructed.

A laboratory specialist will determine how much copper is in the sample.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test. Extra collection bags may
be needed if the sample is being taken from an infant.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of Wilson disease, a
genetic disorder that affects how the body processes copper.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 10 to 30 micrograms per 24 hours.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means you have a higher than normal level of copper. This
may be due to:

    * Biliary cirrhosis
    * Chronic active hepatitis
    * Wilson disease

## Risks

There are no risks associated with providing a urine sample.

## Alternative Names

Quantitative urinary copper

## Images

    * ![Copper urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9222t.jpg)Copper urine test

## References

Anstee QM, Jones DEJ. Hepatology. In: Ralston SH, Penman ID, Strachan MWJ,
Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

Kaler SG, Schilsky ML. Wilson disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 211.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Wilson
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WilsonDisease_thumb.jpg)Wilson Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

