Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000982.htm    
                                Description: Dehydration occurs when your body does not have as much water and fluids as it needs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dehydration

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000982.htm

# Dehydration

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dehydration occurs when your body does not have as much water and fluids as it
needs.

Dehydration can be mild, moderate, or severe, based on how much of your body's
fluid is lost or not replaced. Severe dehydration is a life-threatening
emergency.

## Causes

You can become dehydrated if you lose too much fluid, do not drink enough
water or fluids, or both.

Your body may lose a lot of fluid from:

    * Sweating too much, for example, from exercising in hot weather
    * Fever
    * Vomiting or diarrhea
    * Urinating too much (uncontrolled diabetes or some medicines, like diuretics, can cause you to urinate a lot) 

You might not drink enough fluids because:

    * You do not feel like eating or drinking because you are sick
    * You are nauseated
    * You have a sore throat or mouth sores

Older adults and people with certain diseases, such as diabetes, are also at
higher risk for dehydration.

## Symptoms

Signs of mild to moderate dehydration include:

    * Thirst
    * Dry or sticky mouth
    * Not urinating much
    * Darker yellow urine
    * Dry, cool skin
    * Headache
    * Muscle cramps 

Signs of severe dehydration include:

    * Not urinating, or very dark yellow or amber-colored urine
    * Dry, shriveled skin
    * Irritability or confusion
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Rapid breathing
    * Sunken eyes
    * Listlessness
    * Shock (not enough blood flow through the body)
    * Unconsciousness or delirium 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look for these signs of dehydration:

    * Low blood pressure. 
    * Blood pressure that drops when you stand up after lying down.
    * White finger tips that do not return to a pink color after your provider presses the fingertip. 
    * Skin that is not as elastic as normal. When the provider pinches it into a fold, it may slowly sag back into place. Normally, skin springs back right away.
    * Rapid heart rate. 

YourÂ provider may do lab tests such as:

    * Blood tests to check kidney function
    * Urine tests to see what may be causing dehydration
    * Other tests to see what may be causing dehydration (blood sugar test for diabetes) 

## Treatment

To treat dehydration:

    * Try sipping water or sucking on ice cubes.
    * Try drinking water or sports drinks that contain electrolytes.
    * Do not take salt tablets. They can cause serious complications.
    * Ask your provider what you should eat if you have diarrhea. 

For more severe dehydration or heat emergency, you may need to stay in a
hospital and receive fluid through a vein (IV). The provider will also treat
the cause of the dehydration.

Dehydration caused by a stomach virus should get better on its own after a few
days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If you notice signs of dehydration and treat it quickly, you should recover
completely.

## Possible Complications

Untreated severe dehydration may cause:

    * Death
    * Permanent brain damage
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You should call 911 if:

    * The person loses consciousness at any time.
    * There is any other change in the person's alertness (for example, confusion or seizures).
    * The person has a fever over 102Â°F (38.8Â°C).
    * You notice symptoms of heatstroke (such as rapid pulse or rapid breathing).
    * The person's condition does not improve or gets worse despite treatment. 

## Prevention

To prevent dehydration:

    * Drink plenty of fluids every day, even when you are well. Drink more when the weather is hot or you are exercising.
    * If anyone in your family is ill, pay attention to how much they are able to drink. Pay close attention to children and older adults.
    * Anyone with a fever, vomiting, or diarrhea should drink plenty of fluids. DO NOT wait for signs of dehydration.
    * If you think you or someone in your family may become dehydrated, call your provider. Do this before the person becomes dehydrated. 

## Alternative Names

Vomiting - dehydration; Diarrhea - dehydration; Diabetes - dehydration;
Stomach flu - dehydration; Gastroenteritis - dehydration; Excessive sweating -
dehydration

## Images

    * ![Skin turgor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17223t.jpg)Skin turgor

## References

Kenefick RW, Cheuvront SN, Leon LR, O'brien KK. Dehydration and rehydration.
In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 89.

Padlipsky P, McCormick T. Infectious diarrheal disease and dehydration. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
172.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dehydration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dehydration_thumb.jpg)Dehydration
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

