Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003086.htm    
                                Description: Absence of thirst is a lack of the urge to drink fluids, even when the body is low on water or has too much salt.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thirst - absent

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003086.htm

# Thirst - absent

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Absence of thirst is a lack of the urge to drink fluids, even when the body is
low on water or has too much salt.

## Considerations

Not being thirsty at times during the day is normal, if the body does not need
more fluid. But if you have a sudden change in the need for fluids, you should
see your health care provider right away.

## Causes

As people age, they are less likely to notice their thirst. Therefore, they
may not drink fluids when needed.

Absence of thirst may be due to:

    * Birth defects of the brain
    * Bronchial tumor that causes syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)
    * Hydrocephalus
    * Injury or tumor of part of the brain called the hypothalamus
    * Stroke

## Home Care

Follow your provider's recommendations.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice any abnormal lack of thirst.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will take a medical history and perform a physical exam.

You may be asked questions such as:

    * When did you first notice this problem? Did it develop suddenly or slowly?
    * Is your thirst decreased or totally absent?
    * Are you able to drink fluids? Do you suddenly dislike drinking fluids?
    * Did the loss of thirst follow a head injury?
    * Do you have other symptoms such as abdominal pain, headaches, or swallowing problems?
    * Do you have a cough or difficulty breathing?
    * Do you have any changes in appetite?
    * Do you urinate less than usual?
    * Do you have any changes in skin color?
    * What medicines are you taking? 

The provider will do a detailed nervous system exam if a head injury or
problem with the hypothalamus is suspected. Tests may be needed, depending on
the results of your exam.

Your provider will recommend treatment if needed.

If you are dehydrated, fluids will likely be given through a vein (IV).

## Alternative Names

Adipsia; Lack of thirst; Absence of thirst

## References

Koeppen BM, Stanton BA, Regulation of body fluid osmolality: regulation of
water balance. In: Koeppen BM, Stanton BA, eds. _Renal Physiology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.

Slotki I, Skorecki K. Disorders of sodium and water homeostasis. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

## Review Date 1/19/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dehydration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dehydration_thumb.jpg)Dehydration
_Read more_

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

