Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000368.htm    
                                Description: Hereditary amyloidosis is a condition in which abnormal protein deposits (called amyloid) form in almost every tissue in the body. Deposits most often form in the heart, kidneys, and nervous system. These    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hereditary amyloidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000368.htm

# Hereditary amyloidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hereditary amyloidosis is a condition in which abnormal protein deposits
(called amyloid) form in almost every tissue in the body. Deposits most often
form in the heart, kidneys, and nervous system. These protein deposits damage
the tissues and interfere with how organs work.

## Causes

Hereditary amyloidosis is passed down from parents to their children
(inherited). Genes may also play a role in primary amyloidosis.

Other types of amyloidosis are not inherited. They include:

    * Senile systemic: seen in people older than 70
    * Spontaneous: occurs without a known cause
    * Secondary: results from diseases such as cancer of the blood cells (myeloma)

Specific conditions include:

    * Cardiac amyloidosis
    * Cerebral amyloidosis
    * Secondary systemic amyloidosis

## Treatment

A liver transplant may be helpful. Talk to your health care provider about
treatments.

## Alternative Names

Amyloidosis - hereditary; Familial amyloidosis

## Images

    * ![Amyloidosis of the fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1966t.jpg)Amyloidosis of the fingers

## References

Gertz MA. Amyloidosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman's Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 188.

Budd RC, Seldin DC. Amyloidosis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE,
McInnes IB, OâDell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 116.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amyloidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amyloidosis_thumb.jpg)Amyloidosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

