Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000585.htm    
                                Description: Secondary systemic amyloidosis is a disorder in which abnormal proteins build up in tissues and organs. Clumps of the abnormal proteins are called amyloid deposits.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Secondary systemic amyloidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000585.htm

# Secondary systemic amyloidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Secondary systemic amyloidosis is a disorder in which abnormal proteins build
up in tissues and organs. Clumps of the abnormal proteins are called amyloid
deposits.

Secondary means it occurs because of another disease or situation. For
example, this condition usually occurs due to long-term (chronic) infection or
inflammation. In contrast, primary amyloidosis means there is no other disease
that is causing the condition.

Systemic means that the disease affects the entire body.

## Causes

The exact cause of secondary systemicÂ amyloidosis is unknown. You are more
likely to develop secondary systemic amyloidosis if you have a long-term
infection or inflammation.

This condition may occur with:

    * Ankylosing spondylitisÂ -- a form of arthritis that mostly affects the bones and joints in the spine
    * Bronchiectasis \-- disease in which the large airways in the lungs are damaged by chronic infection
    * Chronic osteomyelitis \-- bone infection
    * Cystic fibrosis \-- disease that causes thick, sticky mucus to build up in the lungs, digestive tract, and other areas of the body, leading to chronic infection of the lungs
    * Familial Mediterranean feverÂ -- inherited disorder of repeated fevers and inflammation that often affects the lining of the abdomen, chest, or joints
    * Hairy cell leukemia \-- a type of blood cancer
    * Hodgkin disease \-- cancer of the lymph tissue
    * Juvenile idiopathic arthritis -- arthritis that affects children
    * Multiple myeloma \-- a type of blood cancer
    * Reiter syndrome \-- a group of conditions that causes swelling and inflammation of the joints, eyes, and urinary and genital systems)
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Systemic lupus erythematosusÂ -- an autoimmune disorder
    * Tuberculosis

## Symptoms

Symptoms of secondary systemic amyloidosis depend on which body tissue is
affected by the protein deposits. These deposits damage normal tissues. This
may lead to the symptoms or signs of this illness, including:

    * Bleeding in the skin
    * Fatigue
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Numbness of hands and feet
    * Rash
    * Shortness of breath
    * Swallowing difficulties
    * Swollen arms or legs
    * Swollen tongue
    * Weak hand grip
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound (may show a swollen liver or spleen)
    * Biopsy or aspiration of fat just beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat)
    * Biopsy of rectum
    * Biopsy of skin
    * Biopsy of bone marrow
    * Blood tests, including creatinine and BUN
    * Echocardiogram
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Nerve conduction velocity
    * Urinalysis

## Treatment

The condition that is causing the amyloidosis should be treated. In some
cases, the drug colchicine or a biologic drug (medicine that treats the immune
system) is prescribed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on which organs are affected. Also depends on,
whether the disease that is causing it can be controlled. If the disease
involves the heart and kidneys, it may lead to organ failure and death.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from secondary systemic amyloidosis include:

    * Endocrine failure
    * Heart failure
    * Kidney failure
    * Respiratory failure 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this condition. The following are
serious symptoms that need prompt medical attention:

    * Bleeding
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Numbness
    * Shortness of breath
    * Swelling
    * Weak grip 

## Prevention

If you have a disease that isÂ known to increase your riskÂ for this
condition, make sure you get it treated. This may help prevent amyloidosis.

## Alternative Names

Amyloidosis - secondary systemic; AA amyloidosis

## Images

    * ![Amyloidosis of the fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1966t.jpg)Amyloidosis of the fingers
    * ![Amyloidosis of the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2366t.jpg)Amyloidosis of the face
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Gertz MA. Amyloidosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 188.

Papa R, Lachmann HJ. Secondary, AA, Amyloidosis. _Rheum Dis Clin North Am_.
2018;44(4):585-603. PMID: 30274625 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30274625.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amyloidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amyloidosis_thumb.jpg)Amyloidosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

