Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000533.htm    
                                Description: Primary amyloidosis is a rare disorder in which abnormal proteins build up in tissues and organs. Clumps of the abnormal proteins are called amyloid deposits.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Primary amyloidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000533.htm

# Primary amyloidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Primary amyloidosis is a rare disorder in which abnormal proteins build up in
tissues and organs. Clumps of the abnormal proteins are called amyloid
deposits.

## Causes

The cause of primary amyloidosis is not well understood. Genes may play a
role.

The condition is related to abnormal and excess production of proteins. Clumps
of abnormal proteins build up in certain organs. This makes it harder for the
organs to work correctly.

Primary amyloidosis can lead to conditions that include:

    * Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Heart muscle damage (cardiomyopathy) leading to congestive heart failure
    * Intestinal malabsorption
    * Liver swelling and malfunction
    * Kidney failure
    * Nephrotic syndrome (group of symptoms that includes protein in the urine, low blood protein levels in the blood, high cholesterol levels, high triglyceride levels, and swelling throughout the body)
    * Nerve problems (neuropathy)
    * Orthostatic hypotension (drop in blood pressure when you stand up) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the organs affected. This disease can affect many organs
and tissues, including the tongue, intestines, skeletal and smooth muscles,
nerves, skin, ligaments, heart, liver, spleen, and kidneys.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Abnormal heart rhythm
    * Fatigue
    * Numbness of hands or feet
    * Shortness of breath
    * Skin changes
    * Swallowing problems
    * Swelling in the arms and legs
    * Swollen tongue
    * Weak hand grip
    * Weight loss or weight gain 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

    * Decreased urine output
    * Diarrhea
    * Hoarseness or changing voice
    * Joint pain
    * Weakness 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. You will be asked about your
medical history and symptoms. A physical exam may show that you have a swollen
liver or spleen, or signs of nerve damage.

The first step in diagnosing amyloidosis should be blood and urine tests to
look for abnormal proteins.

Other tests depend on your symptoms and the organ that may be affected. Some
tests include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound to check the liver and spleen
    * Heart tests, such as an ECG, or echocardiogram, or MRI
    * Kidney function tests to check for signs of kidney failure (nephrotic syndrome) 

Tests that can help confirm the diagnosis include:

    * Abdominal fat pad aspiration
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Heart muscle biopsy
    * Rectal mucosa biopsy 

## Treatment

Treatment may include:

    * Chemotherapy
    * Stem cell transplant
    * Organ transplant

If the condition is caused by another disease, that disease should be
aggressively treated. This may improve symptoms or slow the disease from
getting worse. Complications such as heart failure, kidney failure, and other
problems can sometimes be treated, when needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on which organs are affected. Heart and kidney
involvement may lead to organ failure and death. Body-wide (systemic)
amyloidosis can lead to death within 2 years.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this disease. Also call if you have
been diagnosed with this disease and have:

    * Decreased urine
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Swelling of the ankles or other body parts that does not go away

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for primary amyloidosis.

## Alternative Names

Amyloidosis - primary; Immunoglobulin light chain amyloidosis; Primary
systemic amyloidosis

## Images

    * ![Amyloidosis of the fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1966t.jpg)Amyloidosis of the fingers
    * ![Amyloidosis of the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2366t.jpg)Amyloidosis of the face

## References

Gertz MA, Buadi FK, Lacy MQ, Hayman SR. Immunoglobulin light-chain amyloidosis
(primary amyloidosis). In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 88.

Hawkins PN. Amyloidosis. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS,
Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 177.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amyloidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amyloidosis_thumb.jpg)Amyloidosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

