Link: https://medlineplus.gov/languages/display.html    
                                Description: Some characters on our multiple language pages may not display correctly on your computer. Learn how to troubleshoot issues you might encounter.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Information in Multiple Languages ->

Language Display Issues

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/languages/display.html

# Language Display Issues

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some characters on our multiple language pages may not display correctly on
your computer. There are many possible reasons for this, including your
computer's operating system, the character sets installed on your computer and
the browser you use to view Web pages. The incorrect character display is not
caused by errors on the MedlinePlus pages. The information and links below may
help.

The links provided below are for informational purposes only. We do not
endorse these or any other sites or products.

Fonts: Our multiple language pages are coded in Unicode. You need Unicode
fonts installed on your computer to view the pages correctly. You may have to
download and install specific Unicode font sets to view some of the multiple
language pages. Many new PCs have Unicode fonts pre-installed, but older ones
may not.

You may also need to change the settings on your computer to view Unicode
fonts. The Unicode Consortium's site explains how to configure your computer
to display Unicode fonts correctly. It covers several different operating
systems.

Web Browsers: Proper display of the multiple language pages also depends on
the software you use to view Web pages. This software is called a Web browser.
Examples of Web browsers are Internet Explorer, Firefox and Opera. We
recommend getting the most up-to-date version of the browser you use to view
Web pages.

Return to the MedlinePlus Health Information in Multiple Languages page.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 5 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

