

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Center for Preparedness and Response

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# CDC Digital Media Toolkit:

Personal Health Preparedness

Minus

Related Pages

![National Preparedness Month Header
2019](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/npm19_page_header3.jpg)

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Print Ready Materials

Every September, the Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) along with its
preparedness and response partners in government, private and public health,
and academia come together to observe National Preparedness Month (NPM) and
encourage year-round personal and community preparedness for disasters,
disease outbreaks, and human-caused emergencies.

This year, CPR is marking the occasion with the release of a new Personal
Health Preparedness Digital Toolkit.

## What is Personal Health Preparedness?

Personal health preparedness is about having the wherewithal to care for and
protect your health and wellness in the immediate aftermath of an emergency or
disaster. That means having the supplies, skill, and self-confidence to bounce
back from a difficult or life-changing event like a natural disaster.

Large-scale events, like hurricanes, can cause widespread destruction and
long-lasting power outages, disrupt supply chains, and strain public health
and health care systems.

When access to resources and the availability of services is limited, it is
important to have an emergency supplies kit that includes items from the
following categories:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Power sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical skills

Top of Page

## How to Use This Toolkit

We want you to think of this Personal Health Preparedness Toolkit as your own.
These materials are downloadable, shareable, and--in some cases--customizable.
Here are five (5) easy ways to use this toolkit.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. Share our graphics on social media. Pair them with one of our suggested social media messages or a message of your own choosing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. Download, print, post, and share our factsheets .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. Reprint one of our posts  on your agency's blog.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. Insert a blurb  in your next newsletter.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. Add our Prepare Your Health graphic to your signature block.

We welcome all feedback, including ideas for future toolkits. If you have any
thoughts on how we can improve the usability and usefulness of our resources,
please email us at CPRcommunications@cdc.gov

Top of Page

## Personal needs

![Personal Needs](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/personalneeds_1200x1200.jpg)

Personal needs refers to the unique items--supplies, equipment, and tools--you
need to protect your physical, mental, and emotional health and safety in an
emergency.

Graphics

![Go Kit](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/personalneeds/CPR_PrepYourHealth_go-
kit_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Water
Supply](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/personalneeds/CPR_PrepYourHealth_water-
supply_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Cat Carrier](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/personalneeds/CPR_PrepYourHealth_cat-
carrier_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

More

Social Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gather enough food, water, and medical supplies to last at least 72 hours. Learn how: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PersonalNeeds.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Consider your pet, childcare, and baby supply needs when making a #emergency supplies kit. Remember, kids like to help. Involve older children in collecting the necessary supplies. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PersonalNeeds.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep your pet in a carrier or on a leash in tense situations like a #disaster and unfamiliar settings to prevent injury to yourself, your pet, and others. A typically calm cat or dog may act differently under stress. https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PersonalNeeds.htm #PrepYourHealth #OneHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create a #emergency water supply. Store at least a 3-day supply of water for each person and each pet, more if you live in a hot climate, for a pregnant woman, and for people who are sick. Store a 2-week supply, if possible. https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PersonalNeeds.htm #PrepYourHealth  #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Update your #emergency supplies every six (6) months. Remove, use, and replace any food & water, prescription medications, and supplies before they expire. https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PersonalNeeds.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Create custom go-kits out of rolling luggage, a backpack, a duffle bag, or a pillowcases for every member of your household to prepare for an evacuation. Learn how: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PersonalNeeds.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep

Related Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Family Emergency Kit Checklist for People with Bleeding Disorderspdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Disaster Kit Checklistpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Kit Checklist for Kids and Families
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Kit Checklist for Families with Children and Youth with Special Healthcare Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water Needs: Preparing for a Disaster or Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Disaster Safety for Expecting and New Parents

Top of Page

## Prescriptions

![Prescriptions](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/prescriptions_1200x1200.jpg)

About half of all Americans take a prescription medication as part of their
daily routine. A disaster could make it difficult to find an open pharmacy
and/or get your prescription filled. If possible, organize and protect your
prescriptions, over-the-counter drugs, and vitamins to prepare for an
emergency.

Graphics

![Young boy holding asthma
inhaler](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/prescriptions/CPR_PrepYourHealth_asthma-
inhaler_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Prescriptions
List](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/prescriptions/CPR_PrepYourHealth_prescriptions-
list_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Up and Away](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/prescriptions/CPR_PrepYourHealth_up-
and-away_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

More

Social Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Talk to your doctor or pharmacist about creating an emergency supply of prescription medications. Store medications #UpAndAway & out of sight of children & pets. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Prescriptions.htm #PrepYourHealth #NalPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Keep an up-to-date list of all prescription medications, the dosages, and known allergies with your important paperwork. Write down the phone numbers for your doctor and pharmacist too. https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Prescriptions.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay up to date on your vaccines for infections and illnesses, such as tetanus and seasonal flu, to #PrepYourHealth for a #disaster. Keep copies of vaccination records with your important paperwork. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Prescriptions.htm #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A large-scale #disaster could make it difficult to find an open pharmacy let alone fill a #prescription. Find out if laws in your state permit pharmacists to refill medications ahead of a #emergency. https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Prescriptions.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets are family too. Pet owners: Prepare a two-week supply of any medications, and a one-month supply of flea, tick, and heartworm preventative. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Prescriptions.htm #PrepYourHealth #OneHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Update the contents of your #emergency kit every six (6) months and/or as the needs of your family change. Remove, use, and replace any food & water, prescriptions, and supplies before they expire. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Prescriptions.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep

Related Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparing Your Medicine Cabinet for an Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Managing Insulin in an Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safe Drug Use After a Natural Disasterexternal icon (FDA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Preparedness: Keeping Medications Safe (FDA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natural Disaster Preparedness and Response: Drugs (FDA)

Top of Page

## Paperwork

![Paperwork](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/paperwork_1200x1200.jpg)

Paperwork refers to any important papers that might help you prove medical
coverage, ownership, or your identity after an emergency. Collect and protect
insurance cards, identification documents, and copies of emergency action
plans to prepare for a short-notice evacuation because of a wildfire,
earthquake, or other event.

Graphics

![Medical
Records](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/paperwork/CPR_PrepYourHealth_medical-
records_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Electronic
Copies](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/paperwork/CPR_PrepYourHealth_electronic-
copies_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Flash Drive](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/paperwork/CPR_PrepYourHealth_flash-
drive_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

More

Social Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Q: What classifies as important #paperwork? A: Any hardcopy or digital documents that can help you prove medical coverage, ownership, or your identity after a disaster. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Paperwork.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Collect & protect important #paperwork, including an up-to-date list of prescriptions, insurance cards, and medical records, to #PrepYourHealth for an #emergency. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Paperwork.htm #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets are family too. Include copies of vet records like a rabies certificate for your pets with your important #paperwork. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Paperwork.htm #PrepYourHealth #OneHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Digitize and save electronic copies of important #paperwork in a password-protected format to a flash or external hard drive. Learn more ways to prepare your paperwork: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Paperwork.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Do you know where to write for vital records? Keep copies of birth certificates and marriage licenses with your other important paperwork. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/w2w/index.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Download or bookmark online versions of user manuals for your home use medical devices, such as blood glucose meters and insulin pumps. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/Paperwork.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep

Related Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Vaccination Records: Finding, Interpreting, and Recording
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Where to Write for Vital Records
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Your Health Records-Blue Buttonexternal icon (HHS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protect Your Critical Documents and Valuablespdf iconexternal icon (FEMA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Understanding Encryptionexternal icon (US-CERT)

Top of Page

## Power sources

![Power Sources](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/powersources_1_1200x1200.jpg)

On average, people experience about four hours of power loss each year. Power
outages caused by a large-scale disaster can last much longer and--as a result
--can become life threatening for people who rely on electrically powered
medical equipment and devices. Be prepared for a prolonged blackout with
alternative heating and lighting, and backup power sources for your cellphone,
appliances (i.e., refrigerator), and power-dependent medical devices.

Graphics

![Portable
Generator](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/powersources/CPR_PrepYourHealth_portable-
generator_v3_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Charger plug phone on
car](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/powersources/CPR_PrepYourHealth_battery-
pack_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Flashlight shining a beam of light in
darkness](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/powersources/CPR_PrepYourHealth_batteries_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

More

Social Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prepare for a power outage with backup power sources, such as a generator. ALWAYS use generators outside, in a dry area, & at least 20 ft. from your home to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/co/generatorsafetyfactsheet.html #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Don't get left in the dark. Include alternative lighting and backup power sources, such as a flashlight and extra batteries, in your #emergency supplies kit for when the power goes out. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PowerSources.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Power outages can make it hard for parents to feed their children safely. Nursing moms: Learn how to express breast milk by hand. If there is a power outage, you may not be able to use your electric breast pump. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/features/disasters-infant-feeding #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fully charge your cellphone, medical devices, and backup power sources if you know a disaster is coming. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PowerSources.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A working cellphone is a lifeline in a #emergency. Have backup charging and alternative power sources, including a car charger and power banks, for your cellphone. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PowerSources.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If possible, buy manual alternatives that are portable, dependable, and durable for your electricity-dependent devices. For example, a manual wheelchair, walker, or cane as an alternate for an electric scooter. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PowerSources.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep

Related Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What You Need to Know When the Power Goes Out Unexpectedly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preventing Carbon Monoxide Poisoning After an Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Homeowners: Choosing the Right Backup Generatorexternal icon (DOE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Home Use Devices: How to Prepare for and Handle Power Outagespdf iconexternal icon (FDA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Refrigerated Food and Power Outages: When to Save and When to Throw Outexternal icon (HHS)

Top of Page

## Practical skills

![Practical
Skills](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/practicalskills_1200x1200-medium.jpg)

Practical skills are self-health and life-saving skills and lessons that you
can learn and practice--some of them every day--to prepare for an emergency.
Teach and encourage those around you to learn practical skills. When family,
friends, neighbors, and coworkers complete CPR training, for example, it
protects your health (you can't perform chest compressions on yourself) and
can help build resilience in your community.

Graphics

![Handwashing](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/practicalskills/CPR_PrepYourHealth_teach-
handwashing_v1_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Adult CPR](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/practicalskills/CPR_PrepYourHealth_adult-
cpr_v1_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

![Fire
Extinguisher](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/practicalskills/CPR_PrepYourHealth_fire-
extinguisher_300x300.jpg)

Facebook | Twitter

More

Social Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * There are ways to #PrepYourHealth for a #disaster or #emergency that have nothing to do with gathering supplies. Learning practical, life-saving skills can also improve your personal #health #preparedness. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PracticalSkills.htm #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About 47% of sudden cardiac deaths occur outside a hospital. Learn practical skills, like how to perform CPR and how to use an AED, to #PrepYourHealth for a #emergency. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PracticalSkills.htm #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Learn practical skills & lessons, like how to use a #fire extinguisher, to prepare for a future #emergency. Remember the acronym P.A.S.S. Learn more ways to #PrepYourHealth: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PracticalSkills.htm #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seizures are common; about 1 out of 10 people has had one. Learn practical preparedness skills and lessons, including #seizure first aid, to prepare for a #health #emergency. Learn more #PracticalSkills: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PracticalSkills.htm #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Each year, more than 400 people die from unintentional carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning. Learn practical skills like how to use a generator safely-outdoors, in a dry area, and at least 20 ft. from any door, window, or vent. Learn more: https://www.cdc.gov/co/generatorsafetyfactsheet.html #PrepYourHealth #NatlPrep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective handwashing is a #PracticalSkill that you can easily learn, teach to others, and use every day to #PrepYourHealth for a public #health #emergency. Here are 3 reasons why washing your hands the right way matters: https://www.cdc.gov/cpr/prepareyourhealth/PracticalSkills.htm #NatlPrep

Related Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Until Help Arrivesexternal icon (FEMA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stop the Bleedexternal icon (American College of Surgeons)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find a CPR and First Aid Training Class external icon(American Heart Association)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Take a Class external icon(American Red Cross)

Top of Page

## Print Ready Materials

Issue Briefs

![Personal Needs](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/PersonalNeeds.jpg)

Personal Needs

pdf icon[PDF - 290 KB]

![Prescriptions](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/Prescriptions-1.jpg)

Prescriptions

pdf icon[PDF - 3 MB]

![Paperwork](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/Paperwork.jpg)

Paperwork

pdf icon[PDF - 266 KB]

![Power Sources](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/Power-Sources.jpg)

Power Sources

pdf icon[PDF - 554 KB]

![Practical Skills](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/Practical-Skills.jpg)

Practical Skills

pdf icon[PDF - 288 KB]

Blog Posts

Reprint these sample posts as is or customize them for publication on your
agency's blog. We appreciate your help in getting people to prepare their
health for emergencies and disasters.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Needs: Emergency Supplies Kit Basics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prescriptions: Prepare Your Medicine Cabinet for an Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Paperwork: How to Prepare Your Important Paper, Electronic Records
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Power Sources: Be Prepared When the Lights Go Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Skills for the Every Day

Newsletter Blurbs

Reprint these sample blurbs as is or customize them for use in your agency's
newsletter. We appreciate your help in getting to prepare their health for
natural disasters and emergencies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Personal Health Preparedness 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Preparedness: Do Take it Personal!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Three Ways to Prepare Your Medicine Cabinet for an Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Walking Papers: How to Prepare Your Important Paperwork for an Evacuation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Left in the Dark: Be Prepared for When the Lights Go Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Everyday Practical Skills You Can Use in an Emergency

Ready Wrigley

![Ready Wrigley Earthquakes
Cover](/cpr/readywrigley/images/ready_wrigley_cover_web_earthquakes.jpg)

English pdf icon| Españolpdf icon

![Ready Wrigley Prepares for Extreme Heat
Cover](/cpr/readywrigley/images/ready_wrigley_cover_web_heat.jpg)

English pdf icon| Españolpdf icon

![Ready Wrigley Prepares for the
Flu](/cpr/readywrigley/images/ready_wrigley_cover_web_flu.jpg)

English pdf icon| Españolpdf icon

![Ready Wrigley Hurricane
Cover](/cpr/readywrigley/images/ready_wrigley_cover_web.jpg)

English pdf icon| Españolpdf icon

![Ready Wrigley Winter
Weather](/cpr/readywrigley/images/ready_wrigley_cover_web_winterWeather.jpg)

English pdf icon| Españolpdf icon

![Ready Wrigley Tornadoes
Cover](/cpr/readywrigley/images/ready_wrigley_cover_web_tornadoes.jpg)

English pdf icon| Españolpdf icon

Signature Block

![NPM Signature
Block](/cpr/npm/00_images/2019/npm_header_658_463_signatureblock.jpg)

National Preparedness Month 2019  
**Prepare Your Health: Personal Health Preparedness**  
CDC CPR | Twitter | Facebook | #PrepYourHealth  
_Keeping the US prepared and ready to respond to public health threats_

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: September 5, 2019, 01:20 PM

Content source: Center for Preparedness and Response

home Center for Preparedness and Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ready for Emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Public Health Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Emergency Operations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * State and Local Readiness (PHEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Laboratory Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safeguarding Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Poliovirus Containment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vulnerable Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Why it Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Leadership
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Divisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Preparedness Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prepare Your Healthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Personal Health Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Personal Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prescriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Paperwork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Power Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Practical Skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Plan Aheadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Stay Healthy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Stay Informed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Stay In Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Create Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Care For Each Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Get Involved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency Operationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDCâs EOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How It Works
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Emergency Management Fellowship
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Situation Awareness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State and Local Readiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. National Authority for Containment of Poliovirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Select Agents and Toxinsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Federal Select Agent Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is a Select Agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Regulation of Select Agents and Toxins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Enforcement of Regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Import Permit Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stories and Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reports and Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Program Reviews and Progress Updatesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC 90-Day Internal Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Progress Towards Change
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Science and Public Health Practice plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Our Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Current Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prior Research 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research Funding Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Member Roster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Member Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meeting Minutes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policy & Partnershipsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Successful Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay Connectedplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Become a Partner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Partner Tools and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NGA Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Communication Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blog
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Campaignsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness Monthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preparedness Month 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preparedness Month 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preparedness Month 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preparedness Month 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe and Well Selfie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ready Wrigley!plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Books
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zombie Preparednessplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zombie Graphic Novel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prep Your Health Chat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources & Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Whole Community Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Meta-Leadership Summit for Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preparedness and Emergency Response Learning Centers

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-twitter-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
fb-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-phm-24px.jpg)
![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-in-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-
pin-24px.jpg) ![](/phpr/images/icons/icon-govd-24px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

