Link: https://medlineplus.gov/dandruffcradlecapandotherscalpconditions.html    
                                Description: Dandruff, flaking of skin on your scalp, can be annoying and itchy. Learn about how to treat it, as well as cradle cap and other scalp conditions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Dandruff, Cradle Cap, and Other Scalp Conditions

URL of this page:
https://medlineplus.gov/dandruffcradlecapandotherscalpconditions.html

#  Dandruff, Cradle Cap, and Other Scalp Conditions

Also called: Seborrhea, Seborrheic Dermatitis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your scalp is the skin on the top of your head. Unless you have hair loss,
hair grows on your scalp. Different skin problems can affect your scalp.

Dandruff is a flaking of the skin. The flakes are yellow or white. Dandruff
may make your scalp feel itchy. It usually starts after puberty, and is more
common in men. Dandruff is usually a symptom of seborrheic dermatitis, or
seborrhea. It is a skin condition that can also cause redness and irritation
of the skin.

Most of the time, using a dandruff shampoo can help control your dandruff. If
that does not work, contact your health care provider.

There is a type of seborrheic dermatitis that babies can get. It is called
cradle cap. It usually lasts a few months, and then goes away on its own.
Besides the scalp, it can sometimes affect other parts of the body, such as
the eyelids, armpits, groin, and ears. Normally, washing your baby's hair
every day with a mild shampoo and gently rubbing their scalp with your fingers
or a soft brush can help. For severe cases, your health care provider may give
you a prescription shampoo or cream to use.

Other problems that can affect the scalp include

    * Scalp ringworm, a fungal infection that causes itchy, red patches on your head. It can also leave bald spots. It usually affects children.
    * Scalp psoriasis, which causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. About half of the people with psoriasis have it on their scalp.

## Start Here

    * Cradle Cap (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Dandruff (Logical Images)

## Symptoms

    * Dandruff: Symptoms and Causes (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Seborrheic Dermatitis: Signs and Symptoms (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Cradle Cap: Treatment (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Dandruff: Lifestyle and Home Remedies (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * How to Treat Dandruff ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Scalp Psoriasis: Diagnosis and Treatment (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Tea Tree Oil ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Specifics

    * Cradle Cap (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Kerion (Logical Images)
    * Ringworm, Scalp (Tinea Capitis) (Logical Images)
    * Scalp Psoriasis vs. Seborrheic Dermatitis: What's the Difference? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Seborrheic Dermatitis (Logical Images)
    * Seborrheic Dermatitis and Rosacea (National Rosacea Society)
    * Seborrheic Dermatitis Overview (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dermatitis, Seborrheic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Assessing Biophysical and Physiological Profiles of Scalp Seborrheic Dermatitis in the...
    * Article: Nevus sebaceous.
    * Article: Indurated purple plaques on the scalp.
    * Dandruff, Cradle Cap, and Other Scalp Conditions -- see more articles

## Children

    * Pediatric Seborrheic Dermatitis (Logical Images)

## Teenagers

    * Dandruff (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Cradle cap (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Seborrheic dermatitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Tinea capitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Dandruff](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dandruff.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cradle cap
    * Seborrheic dermatitis
    * Tinea capitis

## Related Health Topics

    * Common Infant and Newborn Problems
    * Head Lice
    * Psoriasis
    * Skin Conditions
    * Tinea Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Dandruff, Cradle Cap, and Other
Scalp Conditions is the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal
and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

