Link: https://medlineplus.gov/metabolicpanel.html    
                                Description: A comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) measures 14 different substances in the blood. It&#39;s used to provide information about your body&#39;s chemical balance, liver and kidney health, and metabolism. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/comprehensive-metabolic-
panel-cmp/

# Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP)?

A comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) is a test that measures 14 different
substances in your blood. It provides important information about your body's
chemical balance and metabolism. Metabolism is the process of how the body
uses food and energy. A CMP includes tests for the following:

    *  **Glucose**, a type of sugar and your body's main source of energy.
    *  **Calcium**, one of the body's most important minerals. Calcium is essential for proper functioning of your nerves, muscles, and heart.
    *  **Sodium** **,potassium, carbon dioxide, and chloride.** These are electrolytes, electrically charged minerals that help control the amount of fluids and the balance of acids and bases in your body.
    *  **Albumin**, a protein made in the liver.
    *  **Total protein** , which measures the total amount of protein in the blood.
    *  **ALP** (alkaline phosphatase), **ALT** (alanine transaminase), and **AST** **Â** (aspartate aminotransferase). These are different enzymes made by the liver.
    *  **Bilirubin**, a waste product made by the liver.
    *  **BUN** **Â (blood urea nitrogen)** and **Creatinine**, waste products removed from your blood by your kidneys.

Abnormal levels of any of these substances or combination of them can be a
sign of a serious health problem.

Other names: chem 14, chemistry panel, chemistry screen, metabolic panel

## What is it used for?

A CMP is used to check several body functions and processes, including:

    * Liver and kidney health
    * Blood sugar levels
    * Blood protein levels
    * Acid and base balance
    * Fluid and electrolyte balance
    * Metabolism

A CMP may also be used to monitor the side effects of certain medicines.

## Why do I need a CMP?

A CMP is often done as part of a routine checkup. You may also need this test
if your health care provider thinks you have liver or kidney disease.

## What happens during a CMP?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) for 10â12 hours before the test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If any one result or combination of CMP results were not normal, it can
indicate a number of different conditions. These include liver disease, kidney
failure, or diabetes. You will likely need more tests to confirm or rule out a
specific diagnosis.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a CMP?

There is a similar test to a CMP called a basic metabolic panel (BMP). A BMP
includes eight of the same tests as a CMP. It does not include the liver and
protein tests. Your provider may choose a CMP or a BMP depending on your
health history and needs.

## References

    1. Brenner Children's: Wake Forest Baptist Health [Internet]. Winston-Salem (NC): Brenner; c2016. Blood Test: Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP); [cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.brennerchildrens.org/KidsHealth/Parents/Cancer-Center/Diagnostic-Tests/Blood-Test-Comprehensive-Metabolic-Panel-CMP.htm
    2. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Blood Test: Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP) [cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/blood-test-cmp.html
    3. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Metabolism [cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/metabolism.html
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP) [updated 2019 Aug 11; cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/comprehensive-metabolic-panel-cmp
    5. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: CMAMA: Comprehensive Metabolic Panel, Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayocliniclabs.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/113631
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    7. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Comprehensive metabolic panel: Overview [updated 2019 Aug 22; cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/comprehensive-metabolic-panel
    8. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Comprehensive Metabolic Panel [cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=comprehensive_metabolic_panel
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Comprehensive Metabolic Panel: Topic Overview [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/comprehensive-metabolic-panel/tr6153.html
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Total Serum Protein: Test Overview [updated 2018 Jun 25; cited 2019 Aug 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/total-protein/hw43614.html#hw43617

## Related Health Topics

    * Calcium
    * Fluid and Electrolyte Balance
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Liver Diseases
    * Potassium
    * Sodium

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Albumin Blood Test
    * Alkaline Phosphatase
    * ALT Blood Test
    * AST Test
    * Bilirubin Blood Test
    * Blood Glucose Test
    * BUN (Blood Urea Nitrogen)
    * Calcium Blood Test
    * Carbon Dioxide (CO2) in Blood
    * Chloride Blood Test
    * Creatinine Test
    * Fasting for a Blood Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Potassium Blood Test
    * Sodium Blood Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

