Link: https://medlineplus.gov/drugabuse.html    
                                Description: There are different types of treatment for drug abuse but the best is to prevent it. Understand more about substance abuse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Drug Use and Addiction

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/druguseandaddiction.html

#  Drug Use and Addiction

Also called: Drug abuse, Substance abuse

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Health Check Tools
    * Games

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Men
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are drugs?

Drugs are chemical substances that can change how your body and mind work.
They include prescription medicines, over-the-counter medicines, alcohol,
tobacco, and illegal drugs.

### What is drug use?

Drug use, or misuse, includes

    * Using illegal substances, such as
      * Anabolic steroids
      * Club drugs
      * Cocaine
      * Heroin
      * Inhalants
      * Marijuana
      * Methamphetamines
    * Misusing prescription medicines, including opioids. This means taking the medicines in a different way than the health care provider prescribed. This includes
      * Taking a medicine that was prescribed for someone else
      * Taking a larger dose than you are supposed to
      * Using the medicine in a different way than you are supposed to. For example, instead of swallowing your tablets, you might crush and then snort or inject them.
      * Using the medicine for another purpose, such as getting high
    * Misusing over-the-counter medicines, including using them for another purpose and using them in a different way than you are supposed to

Drug use is dangerous. It can harm your brain and body, sometimes permanently.
It can hurt the people around you, including friends, families, kids, and
unborn babies. Drug use can also lead to addiction.

### What is drug addiction?

Drug addiction is a chronic brain disease. It causes a person to take drugs
repeatedly, despite the harm they cause. Repeated drug use can change the
brain and lead to addiction.

The brain changes from addiction can be lasting, so drug addiction is
considered a "relapsing" disease. This means that people in recovery are at
risk for taking drugs again, even after years of not taking them.

### Does everyone who takes drugs become addicted?

Not everyone who uses drugs becomes addicted. Everyone's bodies and brains are
different, so their reactions to drugs can also be different. Some people may
become addicted quickly, or it may happen over time. Other people never become
addicted. Whether or not someone becomes addicted depends on many factors.
They include genetic, environmental, and developmental factors.

### Who is at risk for drug addiction?

Various risk factors can make you more likely to become addicted to drugs,
including

    * **Your biology.** People can react to drugs differently. Some people like the feeling the first time they try a drug and want more. Others hate how it feels and never try it again.
    * **Mental health problems.** People who have untreated mental health problems, such as depression, anxiety, or attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are more likely to become addicted. This can happen because drug use and mental health problems affect the same parts of the brain. Also, people with these problems may use drugs to try to feel better.
    * **Trouble at home.** If your home is an unhappy place or was when you were growing up, you might be more likely to have a drug problem.
    * **Trouble in school, at work, or with making friends.** You might use drugs to get your mind off these problems.
    * **Hanging around other people who use drugs.** They might encourage you to try drugs.
    * **Starting drug use when you're young.** When kids use drugs, it affects how their bodies and brains finish growing. This increases your chances of becoming addicted when you're an adult.

### What are the signs that someone has a drug problem?

Signs that someone has a drug problem include

    * Changing friends a lot
    * Spending a lot of time alone
    * Losing interest in favorite things
    * Not taking care of themselves - for example, not taking showers, changing clothes, or brushing their teeth
    * Being really tired and sad
    * Eating more or eating less than usual
    * Being very energetic, talking fast, or saying things that don't make sense
    * Being in a bad mood
    * Quickly changing between feeling bad and feeling good
    * Sleeping at strange hours
    * Missing important appointments
    * Having problems at work or at school
    * Having problems in personal or family relationships

### What are the treatments for drug addiction?

Treatments for drug addiction include counseling, medicines, or both. Research
shows that combining medicines with counseling gives most people the best
chance of success.

The counseling may be individual, family, and/or group therapy. It can help
you

    * Understand why you got addicted
    * See how drugs changed your behavior
    * Learn how to deal with your problems so you won't go back to using drugs
    * Learn to avoid places, people, and situations where you might be tempted to use drugs

Medicines can help with the symptoms of withdrawal. For addiction to certain
drugs, there are also medicines that can help you re-establish normal brain
function and decrease your cravings.

If you have a mental disorder along with an addiction, it is known as a dual
diagnosis. It is important to treat both problems. This will increase your
chance of success.

If you have a severe addiction, you may need hospital-based or residential
treatment. Residential treatment programs combine housing and treatment
services.

### Can drug use and addiction be prevented?

Drug use and addiction are preventable. Prevention programs involving
families, schools, communities, and the media may prevent or reduce drug use
and addiction. These programs include education and outreach to help people
understand the risks of drug use.

NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Start Here

    * Commonly Used Drugs Charts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Drug Addiction (Substance Use Disorder) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Drug Facts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Faces of Change: Do I Have a Problem with Alcohol or Drugs? (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF
    * The Science of Drug Use: Discussion Points ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * Understanding Drug Use and Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * What Is an Addiction? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * What are some signs and symptoms of someone with a drug use problem? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Drug Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Mental Health Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * CDC Vital Signs: HIV and Injection Drug Use (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Dealing with Drug Problems: Preventing and Treating Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Seeking Drug Abuse Treatment: Know What to Ask ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment Approaches for Drug Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Substance Abuse Treatment? A Booklet for Families (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * What to Do If Your Adult Friend or Loved One Has a Problem with Drugs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Living With

    * Intervention: Help a Loved One Overcome Addiction (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Biology of Addiction: Drugs and Alcohol Can Hijack Your Brain ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Does Addiction Run in Families? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Drug Use and Viral Infections (HIV, Hepatitis) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Drugged Driving ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Effects of Drugs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Health Consequences of Drug Misuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)
    * How to Identify Drug Paraphernalia (Drug Enforcement Administration)
    * Take Action against Hepatitis C (for People in Recovery from Mental Illness or Addiction) (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF
    * Taking Medicines Safely After Alcohol or Drug Abuse Recovery (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Hallucinogens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Synthetic Cathinones ("Bath Salts") ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Images

    * DEA Multi-Media Drug Library (Drug Enforcement Administration)
    * Identifying Drugs (Drug Enforcement Administration)

## Health Check Tools

    * Substance Abuse Screening (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Games

    * Drug Use and Effects ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Statistics and Research

    * Behavioral Health Equity (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Drugs, Brains, and Behavior: The Science of Addiction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * FastStats: Drug Overdoses (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * FastStats: Illegal Drug Use (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Research Reports: Hallucinogens and Dissociative Drugs ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) \- PDF
    * Substance Use in Women and Men ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hallucinogens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Psychiatric symptoms caused by cannabis constituents: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
    * Article: Medical Surgical Nurse Self-perceived Competency in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder/Substance Use Disorder...
    * Article: How Not to Spend an Opioid Settlement.
    * Drug Use and Addiction -- see more articles
    * Addictive behavior -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * NIDA Notes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse)

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Drug Enforcement Administration
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Partnership at Drugfree.org (Partnership for a Drug-Free America)
    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

## Children

    * Drugs and Young People: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Bath Salts (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Mushrooms (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

    * Helping Yourself Heal: A Recovering Man's Guide to Coping with the Effects of Childhood Abuse (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF

## Women

    * Helping Yourself Heal: A Recovering Woman's Guide to Coping with Childhood Abuse Issues (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Substance Use in Women ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Drug and Substance Abuse (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Patient Handouts

    * Drug abuse (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Drug dependence (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Toxicology screen (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Drug Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugAbuse2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Barbiturate intoxication and overdose
    * Diet and substance abuse recovery
    * Drug abuse
    * Drug abuse first aid
    * Drug dependence
    * Toxicology screen
    * Urine drug screen

## Related Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Anabolic Steroids
    * Club Drugs
    * Cocaine
    * Drugs and Young People
    * Heroin
    * Inhalants
    * Marijuana
    * Methamphetamine
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction
    * Prescription Drug Misuse
    * Smoking

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Drug Use and Addiction is the
National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Drug Use and
Addiction_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 28 December 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

