Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/zika-virus-test/    
                                Description: Zika is a viral infection usually spread by mosquitos. A Zika virus test checks for a Zika infection in blood or urine. Most people with Zika have mild or no symptoms. But the infection can cause serious complications if you are pregnant. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Zika Virus Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/zika-virus-test/

# Zika Virus Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a Zika virus test?

Zika is a viral infection usually spread by mosquitos. It can also spread
through sex with an infected person or from a pregnant woman to her baby. A
Zika virus test looks for signs of the infection in blood or urine.

Mosquitos that carry the Zika virus are most common in areas of the world with
tropical climates. These include islands in the Caribbean and the Pacific, and
parts of Africa, Central America, South America, and Mexico. Mosquitos
carrying the Zika virus have also been found in parts of the United States,
including South Florida.

Most people infected with Zika have no symptoms or mild symptoms that last a
few days to a week. But a Zika infection can cause serious complications if
you are pregnant. A Zika infection during pregnancy can cause a birth defect
called microcephaly. Microcephaly can severely affect the development of a
baby's brain. Zika infections during pregnancy have also been linked to an
increased risk of other birth defects, miscarriage, and stillbirth.

In rare cases, children and adults infected with Zika may get a disease called
Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome (GBS). GBS is a disorder that causes the body's
immune system to attack part of the nervous system. GBS is serious, but
treatable. If you get GBS, you will probably recover within a few weeks.

Other names: Zika Antibody Test, Zika RT-PCR Test , Zika test

## What is it used for?

A Zika virus test is used to find out if you have a Zika infection. It is
mostly used on pregnant women who have recently traveled to an area where
there is a risk of Zika infection.

## Why do I need a Zika virus test?

You may need a Zika virus test if you are pregnant and have recently traveled
to an area where there is a risk of Zika infection. You may also need a Zika
test if you are pregnant and have had sex with a partner who traveled to one
of these areas.

A Zika test might be ordered if you have symptoms of Zika. Most people with
Zika don't have symptoms, but when there are symptoms, they often include:

    * Fever
    * Rash
    * Joint pain
    * Muscle pain
    * Headache
    * Red eyes (conjunctivitis)

## What happens during a Zika virus test?

A Zika virus test is usually a blood test or a urine test.

If you are getting a Zika blood test, a health care professional will take a
blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle
is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or
vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually
takes less than five minutes.

If you are getting a Zika test in urine, ask your health care provider for
instructions on how to provide your sample.

If you are pregnant and your prenatal ultrasound shows the possibility of
microcephaly, your health care provider may recommend a procedure called
amniocentesis to check for Zika. Amniocentesis is a test that looks at the
fluid that surrounds an unborn baby (amniotic fluid). For this test, your
provider will insert a special hollow needle into your belly and withdraw a
small sample of fluid for testing.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't any special preparations for a Zika virus test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

There are no known risks to a urine test.

Amniocentesis may cause some cramping or pain in your belly. There is a small
chance the procedure will cause a miscarriage. Talk to your health care
provider about the benefits and risks of this test.

## What do the results mean?

A positive Zika test result probably means you have a Zika infection. A
negative result can mean you aren't infected or you were tested too soon for
the virus to show up in testing. If you think you were exposed to the virus,
talk to your health care provider about when or if you need to be retested.

If you are diagnosed with Zika and are pregnant, you can start to prepare for
your baby's possible health problems before he or she is born. While not all
babies exposed to Zika have birth defects or any health problems, many
children born with Zika have long-lasting special needs. Talk to your health
care provider about how to get support and health care services should you
need them. Early intervention may make a difference in your child's health and
quality of life.

If you are diagnosed with Zika and are not pregnant, but would like become
pregnant in the future, talk to your health care provider. Currently, there is
no evidence of Zika-related pregnancy complications in women who have fully
recovered from Zika. Your provider can tell you how long you should wait
before trying to have a baby and if you need to retested.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a Zika virus test?

If you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant, you should take steps to
reduce your risk of getting a Zika infection. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) recommends that pregnant women avoid traveling in areas
that may put you at risk for Zika infection. If you can't avoid travel or if
you live in one of these areas, you should:

    * Apply an insect repellent containing DEET on your skin and clothing. DEET is safe and effective for pregnant women.
    * Wear long-sleeved shirts and pants
    * Use screens on windows and doors
    * Sleep under a mosquito net

## References

    1. ACOG: Women's Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2017. Background on Zika Virus [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/About-ACOG/ACOG-Departments/Zika-Virus/Background-on-Zika-Virus
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Birth Defects: Facts About Microcephaly [updated 2017 Nov 21; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/microcephaly.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; CDC's Response to Zika: What To Know If Your Baby Was Born With Congenital Zika Syndrome [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/zika/testing-follow-up/zika-syndrome-birth-defects.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Questions About Zika; [updated 2017 Apr 26; cited 2018 May 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/about/questions.html
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika and Pregnancy: Exposure, Testing and Risks [updated 2017 Nov 27; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 11 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/zika/testing-follow-up/exposure-testing-risks.html
    6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika and Pregnancy: If Your Family has been Affected [updated 2018 Feb 15; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/zika/family/index.html
    7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika and Pregnancy: Pregnant Women [updated 2017 Aug 16; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/zika/protect-yourself.html
    8. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika and Pregnancy: Testing and Diagnosis [updated 2018 Jan 19; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/zika/testing-follow-up/testing-and-diagnosis.html
    9. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika Virus: Overview [updated 2017 Aug 28; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/about/overview.html
    10. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika Virus: Prevent Mosquito Bites [updated 2018 Feb 5; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/prevention/prevent-mosquito-bites.html
    11. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika Virus: Sexual Transmission and Prevention [updated 2018 Jan 31; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/prevention/sexual-transmission-prevention.html
    12. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika Virus: Symptoms [updated 2017 May 1; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/symptoms/symptoms.html
    13. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Zika Virus: Testing for Zika [updated 2018 Mar 9; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/zika/symptoms/diagnosis.html
    14. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Zika Virus Testing [updated 2018 Apr 16; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/zika-virus-testing
    15. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Zika virus disease: Symptoms and causes; 2017 Aug 23 [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/zika-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20353639
    16. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Zika virus disease: Diagnosis and treatment; 2017 Aug 23 [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/zika-virus/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20353645
    17. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Zika Virus Infection [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/arboviruses,-arenaviruses,-and-filoviruses/zika-virus-infection
    18. National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (NCATS); Zika virus infection [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/12894/zika-virus-infection
    19. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    20. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome Fact Sheet [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Fact-Sheets/Guillain-Barre-Syndrome-Fact-Sheet
    21. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: A to Zika: All About the Mosquito-Borne Disease [cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=134&contentid;=259
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Amniocentesis: Test Overview [updated 2017 Jun 6; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 2 screens].https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/amniocentesis/hw1810.html
    23. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Zika Virus: Topic Overview [updated 2017 May 7; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/zika-virus/abr6757.html
    24. World Health Organization [Internet]. Geneva (SUI): World Health Organization; c2018. Zika virus [updated 2016 Sep 6; cited 2018 Apr 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/zika/en

## Related Health Topics

    * Birth Defects
    * Miscarriage
    * Mosquito Bites
    * Pregnancy
    * Prenatal Care
    * Prenatal Testing
    * Stillbirth
    * Zika Virus

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

