Link: https://medlineplus.gov/rashes.html    
                                Description: A rash, or dermatitis, is an area of irritated or swollen skin. It can be itchy, red, and painful. Learn about the types, causes, and treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Rashes

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/rashes.html

#  Rashes

Also called: Dermatitis, Skin rash

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A rash is an area of irritated or swollen skin. Many rashes are itchy, red,
painful, and irritated. Some rashes can also lead to blisters or patches of
raw skin. Rashes are a symptom of many different medical problems. Other
causes include irritating substances and allergies. Certain genes can make
people more likely to get rashes.

Contact dermatitis is a common type of rash. It causes redness, itching, and
sometimes small bumps. You get the rash where you have touched an irritant,
such as a chemical, or something you are allergic to, like poison ivy.

Some rashes develop right away. Others form over several days. Although most
rashes clear up fairly quickly, others are long-lasting and need long-term
treatment.

Because rashes can be caused by many different things, it's important to
figure out what kind you have before you treat it. If it is a bad rash, if it
does not go away, or if you have other symptoms, you should see your health
care provider. Treatments may include moisturizers, lotions, baths, cortisone
creams that relieve swelling, and antihistamines, which relieve itching.

## Start Here

    * New Itchy Skin Rashes in Adults (Logical Images)
    * Rash Decisions: How to Deal With Itchy, Red Skin ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Skin Rashes and Other Problems (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * First Aid: Rashes (Nemours Foundation)

## Related Issues

    * Scratching the Surface on Skin Allergies (American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * Breast Rash (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Contact Dermatitis (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Dyshidrotic Eczema: Overview (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Heat Rash (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Hot Tub Rash (Pseudomonas Dermatitis/Folliculitis) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Nickel Allergy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Allergic Contact Dermatitis (Logical Images)
    * Drug Eruption (Logical Images)
    * Dyshidrotic Eczema (Logical Images)
    * Irritant Contact Dermatitis (Logical Images)
    * Miliaria Rubra (Logical Images)
    * Pityriasis Rosea (Logical Images)
    * Viral Exanthem (Logical Images)

## Health Check Tools

    * Skin Allergy Quiz (American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dermatitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dermatitis, Contact ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diaper Rash ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Exanthema ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Atopic Dermatitis: Update on Pathogenesis and Therapy.
    * Article: Cutaneous Drug Eruptions in Pediatrics-A Primer.
    * Article: Efficacy and safety of So-Cheong-Ryong-Tang in patients with atopic dermatitis and...
    * Rashes -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Chronic Itchy Skin Rashes in Children (Logical Images)
    * Dermatitis, Diaper Irritant (Logical Images)
    * Diaper Rash (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Drug Eruption (Pediatric) (Logical Images)
    * How to Treat Diaper Rash (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Miliaria Rubra (Logical Images)
    * New Itchy Skin Rashes in Children (Logical Images)
    * Rashes: The Itchy Truth (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Viral Exanthem (Logical Images)

## Patient Handouts

    * "Hot Tub Rash" and "Swimmer's Ear" (Pseudomonas) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Contact dermatitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Diaper rash (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hot tub folliculitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pityriasis rosea (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Rash - child under 2 years (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Rashes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Contact dermatitis
    * Diaper rash
    * Erysipeloid
    * Exfoliative dermatitis
    * Hot tub folliculitis
    * Pityriasis rosea
    * Rash - child under 2 years
    * Rashes

## Related Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Eczema
    * Latex Allergy
    * Poison Ivy, Oak, and Sumac
    * Skin Conditions

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Rashes is the National Institute
of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 15 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

