Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/pregnancy-test/    
                                Description: A pregnancy test can tell whether you are pregnant by checking for HCG, a hormone made during pregnancy. The test is done in urine or blood. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Pregnancy Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/pregnancy-test/

# Pregnancy Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a pregnancy test?

A pregnancy test can tell whether you are pregnant by checking for a
particular hormone in your urine or blood. The hormone is called human
chorionic gonadotropin (HCG). HCG is made in a woman's placenta after a
fertilized egg implants in the uterus. It is normally made only during
pregnancy.

A urine pregnancy test can find the HCG hormone about a week after you've
missed a period. The test can be done in a health care provider's office or
with a home test kit. These tests are basically the same, so many women choose
to use a home pregnancy test before calling a provider. When used correctly,
home pregnancy tests are 97â99 percent accurate.

A pregnancy blood test is done in a health care provider's office. It can find
smaller amounts of HCG, and can confirm or rule out a pregnancy earlier than a
urine test. A blood test can detect pregnancy even before you've missed a
period. Pregnancy blood tests are about 99 percent accurate. A blood test is
often used to confirm the results of a home pregnancy test.

Other names: human chorionic gonadotropin test, HCG test

## What is it used for?

A pregnancy test is used to find out whether you are pregnant.

## Why do I need a pregnancy test?

You may need this test if you think you are pregnant. Symptoms of pregnancy
vary from woman to woman, but the most common sign of early pregnancy is a
missed period. Other common signs of pregnancy include:

    * Swollen, tender breasts
    * Fatigue
    * Frequent urination
    * Nausea and vomiting (also called morning sickness)
    * Bloated feeling in the abdomen

## What happens during a pregnancy test?

You can get a home pregnancy test kit at the drug store without a
prescription. Most are inexpensive and easy to use.

Many home pregnancy tests include a device called a dipstick. Some also
include a collection cup. Your home test may include the following steps or
similar steps:

    * Do the test on your first urination of the morning. The test may be more accurate at this time, because morning urine usually has more HCG.
    * Hold the dipstick in your urine stream for 5 to 10 seconds. For kits that include a collection cup, urinate into the cup, and insert the dipstick into the cup for 5 to 10 seconds.
    * After a few minutes, the dipstick will show your results. The time to results and the way the results are shown will vary between test kit brands.
    * Your dipstick may have a window or other area that shows a plus or minus sign, a single or double line, or the words "pregnant" or "not pregnant." Your pregnancy test kit will include instructions on how to read your results.

If the results show you are not pregnant, you may want to try again in a few
days, as you may have done the test too early. HCG gradually increases during
pregnancy.

If your results show you are pregnant, you should make an appointment with
your health care provider. Your provider may confirm your results with a
physical exam and/or a blood test.

During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from
a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This process usually takes less
than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a pregnancy test in urine or
blood.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a urine test.

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results means?

Your results will show whether you are pregnant. If you are pregnant, it's
important to see your health care provider as soon as possible. You may be
referred to or may already be receiving care from an obstetrician/gynecologist
(OB/GYN) or a midwife. These are providers who specialize in women's health,
prenatal care, and pregnancy. Regular health care visits during pregnancy can
help ensure you and your baby stay healthy.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a pregnancy test?

A urine pregnancy test shows whether HCG is present. HCG indicates pregnancy.
A pregnancy blood test also shows the amount of HCG. If your blood tests show
a very low amount of HCG, it could mean you have an ectopic pregnancy, a
pregnancy that grows outside the uterus. A developing baby can't survive an
ectopic pregnancy. Without treatment, the condition can be life-threatening
for a woman.

## References

    1. FDA: U.S. Food and Drug Administration [Internet]. Silver Spring (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Pregnancy [updated 2017 Dec 28; cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.fda.gov/medicaldevices/productsandmedicalprocedures/invitrodiagnostics/homeusetests/ucm126067.htm
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. hCG Pregnancy [updated 2018 Jun 27; cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/hcg-pregnancy
    3. March of Dimes [Internet]. White Plains (NY): March of Dimes; c2018. Getting Pregnant [cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.marchofdimes.org/pregnancy/getting-pregnant.aspx#QATabAlt
    4. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Detecting and Dating a Pregnancy [cited 2018 June 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/women-s-health-issues/normal-pregnancy/detecting-and-dating-a-pregnancy
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    6. Office on Women's Health [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Knowing if you are pregnant [updated 2018 Jun 6; cited 2108 Jun 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.womenshealth.gov/pregnancy/you-get-pregnant/knowing-if-you-are-pregnant
    7. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Signs of Pregnancy/The Pregnancy Test [cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P01236
    8. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Home Pregnancy Tests: How It is Done [updated 2017 Mar 16; cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/home-pregnancy-tests/hw227606.html#hw227615
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Home Pregnancy Tests: How to Prepare [updated 2017 Mar 16; cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/home-pregnancy-tests/hw227606.html#hw227614
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Home Pregnancy Tests: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 16; cited 2018 Jun 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: Â https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/home-pregnancy-tests/hw227606.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Pregnancy
    * Prenatal Care
    * Prenatal Testing
    * Women's Health

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

