Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bcr-abl-genetic-test/    
                                Description: A BCR-ABL genetic test helps diagnose CML, a type of leukemia. BCR-ABL is a genetic mutation formed by a combination of the BCR and ABL genes. Certain cancer medicines are especially effective in treating patients with the BCR-ABL mutation. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

BCR ABL Genetic Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bcr-abl-genetic-test/

# BCR ABL Genetic Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a BCR-ABL genetic test?

A BCR-ABL genetic test looks for a genetic mutation (change) on a specific
chromosome.

Chromosomes are the parts of your cells that contain your genes. Genes are
parts of DNA passed down from your mother and father. They carry information
that determines your unique traits, such as height and eye color.

People normally have 46 chromosomes, divided into 23 pairs, in each cell. One
of each pair of chromosomes comes from your mother, and the other pair comes
from your father.

BCR-ABL is a mutation that is formed by the combination of two genes, known as
BCR and ABL. It's sometimes called a fusion gene.

    * The BCR gene is normally on chromosome number 22.
    * The ABL gene is normally on chromosome number 9.
    * The BCR-ABL mutation happens when pieces of BCR and ABL genes break off and switch places.
    * The mutation shows up on chromosome 22, where the piece of chromosome 9 has attached itself.
    * The mutated chromosome 22 is called the Philadelphia chromosome because that's the city where researchers first discovered it.
    * The BCR-ABL gene is not the type of mutation that is inherited from your parents. It is a type of somatic mutation, which means you are not born with it. You get it later in life.

The BCR-ABL gene shows up in patients with certain types of leukemia, a cancer
of the bone marrow and white blood cells. BCR-ABL is found in almost all
patients with a type of leukemia called chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).
Another name for CML is chronic _myelogenous_ leukemia. Both names refer to
the same disease.

The BCR-ABL gene is also found in some patients with a form of acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and rarely in patients with acute myelogenous
leukemia (AML).

Certain cancer medicines are especially effective in treating leukemia
patients with the BCR-ABL gene mutation. These medicines also have fewer side
effects than other cancer treatments. The same medicines are not effective in
treating different types of leukemia or other cancers.

Other names: BCR-ABL1, BCR-ABL1 fusion, Philadelphia chromosome

## What is it used for?

A BCR-ABL test is most often used to diagnose or rule out chronic myeloid
leukemia (CML) or a specific form of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) called
Ph-positive ALL. Ph-positive means a Philadelphia chromosome was found. The
test is not used to diagnose other types of leukemia.

The test may also be used to:

    * See if cancer treatment is effective.
    * See if a patient has developed a resistance to certain treatment. That means a treatment that used to be effective is no longer working.

## Why do I need a BCR-ABL genetic test?

You may need a BCR-ABL test if you have symptoms of chronic myeloid leukemia
(CML) or Ph-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). These include:

    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Weight loss
    * Night sweats (excessive sweating while sleeping)
    * Joint or bone pain

Some people with CML or Ph-positive ALL have no symptoms, or very mild
symptoms, especially in the early stages of the disease. So your health care
provider may order this test if a complete blood count or other blood test
showed results that were not normal. You should also let your provider know if
you have any symptoms that concern you. CML and Ph-positive ALL are easier to
treat when found early.

You may also need this test if you are currently being treated for CML or Ph-
positive ALL. The test can help your provider see if your treatment is
working.

## What happens during a BCR-ABL genetic test?

A BCR-ABL test is usually a blood test or a procedure called a bone marrow
aspiration and biopsy.

 **If you are getting a blood test,** a health care professional will take a
blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle
is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or
vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually
takes less than five minutes.

 **If you are getting a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy,** your procedure
may include the following steps:

    * You'll lie down on your side or your stomach, depending on which bone will be used for testing. Most bone marrow tests are taken from the hip bone.
    * Your body will be covered with cloth, so that only the area around the testing site is showing.
    * The site will be cleaned with an antiseptic.
    * You will get an injection of a numbing solution. It may sting.
    * Once the area is numb, the health care provider will take the sample. You will need to lie very still during the tests.
      * For a bone marrow aspiration, which is usually performed first, the health care provider will insert a needle through the bone and pull out bone marrow fluid and cells. You may feel a sharp but brief pain when the needle is inserted.
      * For a bone marrow biopsy, the health care provider will use a special tool that twists into the bone to take out a sample of bone marrow tissue. You may feel some pressure on the site while the sample is being taken.
    * It takes about 10 minutes to perform both tests.
    * After the test, the health care provider will cover the site with a bandage.
    * Plan to have someone drive you home, since you may be given a sedative before the tests, which may make you drowsy.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You usually don't need any special preparations for a blood or bone marrow
test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

After a bone marrow test, you may feel stiff or sore at the injection site.
This usually goes away in a few days. Your health care provider may recommend
or prescribe a pain reliever to help.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show you have the BCR-ABL gene, as well as an abnormal amount
of white blood cells, you will probably be diagnosed with chronic myeloid
leukemia (CML) or Ph-positive, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

If you are currently being treated for CML or Ph-positive ALL, your results
may show:

    *  **The amount of BCR-ABL in your blood or bone marrow is increasing.** This may mean your treatment is not working and/or you've become resistant to a certain treatment.
    *  **The amount of BCR-ABL in your blood or bone marrow is decreasing.** This may mean your treatment is working.
    *  **The amount of BCR-ABL in your blood or bone marrow has not increased or decreased.** This may mean your disease is stable.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a BCR-ABL genetic test?

Treatments for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and Ph-positive, acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have been successful in patients with these forms
of leukemia. It's important to see your health care provider regularly to make
sure your treatments continue to work. If you become resistant to treatment,
your provider may recommend other types of cancer therapy.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. What Causes Chronic Myeloid Leukemia [updated 2018 Jun 19; cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/chronic-myeloid-leukemia/causes-risks-prevention/what-causes.html
    2. Cancer.net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Leukemia: Chronic Myeloid: CML: Introduction; 2018 Mar [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/leukemia-chronic-myeloid-cml/introduction
    3. Cancer.net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Leukemia: Chronic Myeloid: CML: Treatment Options; 2018 Mar [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/leukemia-chronic-myeloid-cml/treatment-options
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. BCR-ABL1 [updated 2017 Dec 4; cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/bcr-abl1
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Leukemia [updated 2018 Jan 18; cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/leukemia
    6. Leukemia and Lymphoma Society [Internet]. Rye Brook (NY): Leukemia and Lymphoma Society; c2015. Chronic Myeloid Leukemia [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.lls.org/leukemia/chronic-myeloid-leukemia
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Bone marrow biopsy and aspiration: Overview; 2018 Jan 12 [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/bone-marrow-biopsy/about/pac-20393117
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Chronic myelogenous leukemia: Overview; 2016 May 26 [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/chronic-myelogenous-leukemia/symptoms-causes/syc-20352417
    9. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: BADX: BCR/ABL1, Qualitative, Diagnostic Assay: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/89006
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Bone Marrow Examination [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/blood-disorders/symptoms-and-diagnosis-of-blood-disorders/bone-marrow-examination
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/blood-disorders/leukemias/chronic-myelogenous-leukemia
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Treatment (PDQÂ®)-Patient Version [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/patient/cml-treatment-pdq
    13. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Targeted Cancer Therapies [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/targeted-therapies/targeted-therapies-fact-sheet
    14. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: BCR-ABL fusion gene [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/bcr-abl-fusion-gene
    15. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: BCR-ABL fusion protein [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/bcr-abl-fusion-protein
    16. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    17. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    18. NIH National Human Genome Research Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Chromosome Abnormalities; 2016 Jan 6 [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.genome.gov/11508982
    19. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; ABL1 gene; 2018 Jul 31 [cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/ABL1#conditions
    20. Oncolink [Internet]. Philadelphia: Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania; c2018. All About Adult Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL) [updated 2018 Jan 22; cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.oncolink.org/cancers/leukemia/leukemia-acute-lymphocytic-leukemia-all/all-about-adult-acute-lymphocytic-leukemia-all
    21. Oncolink [Internet]. Philadelphia: Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania; c2018. All About Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) [updated 2017 Oct 11; cited 2018 Aug 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.oncolink.org/cancers/leukemia/chronic-myelogenous-leukemia-cml/all-about-chronic-myeloid-leukemia-cml

## Related Health Topics

    * Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Acute Myeloid Leukemia
    * Bone Marrow Diseases
    * Cancer
    * Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Genetic Testing
    * Leukemia

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Blood Differential
    * Bone Marrow Tests
    * Complete Blood Count (CBC)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Karyotype Genetic Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

