Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/rheumatoid-factor-rf-test/    
                                Description: This test measures rheumatoid factors in blood. Rheumatoid factors may be a sign of rheumatoid arthritis or another autoimmune disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Rheumatoid Factor (RF) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/rheumatoid-factor-rf-test/

# Rheumatoid Factor (RF) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a rheumatoid factor (RF) test?

A rheumatoid factor (RF) test measures the amount of rheumatoid factor (RF) in
your blood. Rheumatoid factors are proteins produced by the immune system.
Normally, the immune system attacks disease-causing substances like viruses
and bacteria. Rheumatoid factors attack healthy joints, glands, or other
normal cells by mistake.

An RF test is most often used to help diagnose rheumatoid arthritis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a type of autoimmune disorder that causes pain,
swelling, and stiffness of the joints. Rheumatoid factors may also be a sign
of other autoimmune disorders, such as juvenile arthritis, certain infections,
and some types of cancer.

Other names: RF Blood Test

## What is it used for?

An RF test is used to help diagnose rheumatoid arthritis or other autoimmune
disorders.

## Why do I need an RF test?

You may need an RF test if you have symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. These
include:

    * Joint pain
    * Joint stiffness, especially in the morning
    * Joint swelling
    * Fatigue
    * Low-grade fever

## What happens during an RF test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an RF test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If rheumatoid factor is found in your blood, it may indicate:

    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Another autoimmune disease, such lupus, Sjogren's syndrome, juvenile arthritis, or scleroderma
    * An infection, such as mononucleosis or tuberculosis
    * Certain cancers, such as leukemia or multiple myeloma

About 20 percent of people with rheumatoid arthritis have little or no
rheumatoid factor in their blood. So even if your results were normal, your
health care provider may order more tests to confirm or rule out a diagnosis.

If your results were not normal, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a
medical condition needing treatment. Some healthy people have rheumatoid
factor in their blood, but it's not clear why.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an RF test?

An RF test is _not_ used to diagnose osteoarthritis. Although rheumatoid
arthritis and osteoarthritis both affect the joints, they are very different
diseases. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that affects people at
any age, but usually occurs between the ages of 40 and 60. It affects more
women than men. Symptoms may come and go and vary in severity. Osteoarthritis
is _not_ an autoimmune disease. It is caused by the wear and tear of joints
over time and usually affects adults over the age of 65.

## References

    1. Arthritis Foundation [Internet]. Atlanta: Arthritis Foundation; Rheumatoid Arthritis Diagnosis [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.arthritis.org/about-arthritis/types/rheumatoid-arthritis/diagnosing.php
    2. Arthritis Foundation [Internet]. Atlanta: Arthritis Foundation; Rheumatoid Arthritis Symptoms [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.arthritis.org/about-arthritis/types/rheumatoid-arthritis/symptoms.php
    3. Arthritis Foundation [Internet]. Atlanta: Arthritis Foundation; What is Osteoarthritis? [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.arthritis.org/about-arthritis/types/osteoarthritis/what-is-osteoarthritis.php
    4. Arthritis Foundation [Internet]. Atlanta: Arthritis Foundation; What is Rheumatoid Arthritis? [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.arthritis.org/about-arthritis/types/rheumatoid-arthritis/what-is-rheumatoid-arthritis.php
    5. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Rheumatoid Factor; 460 p.
    6. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Rheumatoid Arthritis [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/arthritis_and_other_rheumatic_diseases/rheumatoid_arthritis_85,p01133
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Arthritis [updated 2017 Sep 20; cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/arthritis
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Rheumatoid Arthritis [updated 2018 Jan 9; cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/rheumatoid-arthritis
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Rheumatoid Factor (RF) [updated 2018 Jan 15; cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/rheumatoid-factor-rf
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Rheumatoid Factor; 2017 Dec 30 [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/rheumatoid-factor/about/pac-20384800
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    12. National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Rheumatoid Arthritis [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niams.nih.gov/health-topics/rheumatoid-arthritis
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Rheumatoid Factor (Blood) [cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=rheumatoid_factor
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Rheumatoid Factor (RF): Results [updated 2017 Oct 10; cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/rheumatoid-factor/hw42783.html#hw42811
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Rheumatoid Factor (RF): Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 10; cited 2018 Feb 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/rheumatoid-factor/hw42783.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Infectious Diseases
    * Leukemia
    * Multiple Myeloma
    * Rheumatoid Arthritis
    * Scleroderma
    * Sjogren's Syndrome

## Related Lab Test Information

    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test
    * Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 28 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

