Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/urobilinogen-in-urine/    
                                Description: A urobilinogen in urine test looks for liver disease or damage. It may be included in a routine exam or if a liver problem is suspected. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Urobilinogen in Urine

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/urobilinogen-in-urine/

# Urobilinogen in Urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a urobilinogen in urine test?

A urobilinogen in urine test measures the amount of urobilinogen in a urine
sample. Urobilinogen is formed from the reduction of bilirubin. Bilirubin is a
yellowish substance found in your liver that helps break down red blood cells.
Normal urine contains some urobilinogen. If there is little or no urobilinogen
in urine, it can mean your liver isn't working correctly. Too much
urobilinogen in urine can indicate a liver disease such as hepatitis or
cirrhosis.

Other names: urine test; urine analysis; UA, chemical urinalysis

## What is it used for?

A urobilinogen test may part of a urinalysis, a test that measures different
cells, chemicals, and other substances in your urine. A urinalysis is often
part of a routine exam.

## Why do I need a urobilinogen in urine test?

Your health care provider may have ordered this test as part of your regular
checkup, to monitor an existing liver condition, or if you have symptoms of a
liver disease. These include:

    * Jaundice, a condition that causes your skin and eyes to turn yellow
    * Nausea and/or vomiting
    * Dark colored urine
    * Pain and swelling in the abdomen
    * Itchy skin

## What happens during a urobilinogen in urine test?

Your health care provider will need to collect a sample of your urine. He or
she will provide you with special instructions to ensure the sample is
sterile. These instructions are often called as the "clean catch method." The
clean catch method includes the following steps:

    1. Wash your hands.
    2. Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    3. Start to urinate into the toilet.
    4. Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    5. Collect at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amounts.
    6. Finish urinating into the toilet.
    7. Return the sample container as instructed by your health care provider.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations. If your health care provider has
ordered other urine or blood tests, you may need to fast (not eat or drink)
for several hours before the test. Your health care provider will let you know
if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having this test.

## What do the results mean?

If your test results show too little or no urobilinogen in your urine, it may
indicate:

    * A blockage in the structures that carry bile from your liver
    * A blockage in the blood flow of the liver
    * A problem with liver function

If your test results show a higher-than-normal level of urobilinogen, it may
indicate:

    * Hepatitis
    * Cirrhosis
    * Liver damage due to drugs
    * Hemolytic anemia, a condition in which red blood cells are destroyed before they can be replaced. This leaves the body without enough healthy red blood cells

If your results are abnormal, it does not necessarily indicate you have a
medical condition requiring treatment. Be sure to tell your health care
provider about any medicines and supplements you are taking, as these can
affect your results. If you are a woman, you should tell your health care
provider if you are menstruating.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a urobilinogen in urine test?

This test is only one measure of liver function. If your health care provider
thinks you might have a liver disease, additional urine and blood tests may be
ordered.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Bilirubin (Serum); p. 86â87.
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Fecal Urobilinogen; p. 295.
    3. LabCE [Internet]. Lab CE; c2001â2017. Clinical Significance of Urobilinogen in Urine; [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.labce.com/spg506382_clinical_significance_of_urobilinogen_in_urine.aspx
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: At a Glance; [updated 2016 May 26; cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/tab/glance/
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: The Test; [updated 2016 May 26; cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/tab/test
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: The Test Sample; [updated 2016 May 26; cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/tab/sample
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: The Three Types of Exams; [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/ui-exams?start=1
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Urinalysis; [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/diagnosis-of-kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/urinalysis
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Bilirubin test; Definition; 2015 Oct 13 [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/bilirubin/basics/definition/prc-20019986
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Liver disease: Symptoms; 2014 July 15 [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/liver-problems/basics/symptoms/con-20025300
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Urinalysis: How you prepare; 2016 Oct 19 [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/details/how-you-prepare/ppc-20255388
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Urinalysis: What you can expect; 2016 Oct 19 [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/details/what-you-can-expect/rec-20255393
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is Hemolytic Anemia?; [updated 2014 Mar 21; cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/ha
    14. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Liver Disease; [cited 2017 Mar 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/liver-disease
    15. Saint Francis Health System [Internet]. Tulsa (OK): Saint Francis Health System; c2016. Patient Information: Collecting a Clean Catch Urine Sample; [cited 2017 May 2 ]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.saintfrancis.com/lab/Documents/Collecting%20a%20Clean%20Catch%20Urine.pdf
    16. Thapa BR, Walia A. Liver Function Tests and their Interpretation. Indian J Pediatr [Internet]. 2007 July [cited 2017 May 2]; 74 (7) 663â71. Available from: http://medind.nic.in/icb/t07/i7/icbt07i7p663.pdf

## Related Health Topics

    * Liver Diseases
    * Urinalysis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

