Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/tuberculosis-screening/    
                                Description: A tuberculosis (TB) screening is used to find out if you&#39;ve been infected with TB, a serious disease affecting the lungs. TB can be latent (inactive) or active. If not treated, active TB can cause severe illness or death. This TB test does not show whether TB is latent or active. You will need more tests for a diagnosis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Tuberculosis Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/tuberculosis-screening/

# Tuberculosis Screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a tuberculosis (TB) screening?

This test checks to see if you have been infected with tuberculosis, commonly
known as TB. TB is a serious bacterial infection that mainly affects the
lungs. It can also affect other parts of the body, including the brain, spine,
and kidneys. TB is spread from person to person through coughing or sneezing.

Not everyone infected with TB gets sick. Some people have an inactive form of
the infection called **latent TB**. When you have latent TB, you don't feel
sick and can't spread the disease to others.

Many people with latent TB will never feel any symptoms of the disease. But
for others, especially those who have or develop weakened immune systems,
latent TB can turn into a far more dangerous infection called **active TB**.
If you have active TB, you may feel very sick. You may also spread the disease
to other people. Without treatment, active TB can cause serious illness or
even death.

There are two types of TB tests used for screening: a TB skin test and a TB
blood test. These tests can show if you have ever been infected with TB. They
don't show if you have a latent or active TB infection. More tests will be
needed to confirm or rule out a diagnosis.

Other names: TB test, TB skin test, PPD test, IGRA test

## What is it used for?

TB screening is used to look for a TB infection in a skin or blood sample. The
screening can show whether you have been infected with TB. It does not show if
TB is latent or active.

## Why do I need a TB screening?

You may need a TB skin test or TB blood test if you have symptoms of an active
TB infection or if you have certain factors that put you at higher risk for
getting TB.

Symptoms of an active TB infection include:

    * Cough that lasts for three weeks or more
    * Coughing up blood
    * Chest pain
    * Fever
    * Fatigue
    * Night sweats
    * Unexplained weight loss

In addition, some childcare centers and other facilities require TB testing
for employment.

You may be at higher risk for getting TB if you:

    * Are a health care worker who cares for patients who have or are at high risk for getting TB
    * Live or work in a place with a high rate of TB infection. These include homeless shelters, nursing homes, and prisons.
    * Have been exposed to someone who has an active TB infection
    * Have HIV or another disease that weakens your immune system
    * Use illegal drugs
    * Have traveled or lived in an area where TB is more common. These include countries in Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, Latin America, and the Caribbean, and in Russia.

## What happens during a TB screening?

A TB screening will either be a TB skin test or a TB blood test. TB skin tests
are used more often, but blood tests for TB are becoming more common. Your
health care provider will recommend which type of TB test is best for you.

 **For a TB skin test** (also called a PPD test), you will need two visits to
your health care provider's office. On the first visit, your provider will:

    * Wipe your inner arm with an antiseptic solution
    * Use a tiny needle to inject a small amount of PPD under the first layer of skin. PPD is a protein that comes from the tuberculosis bacteria. It is not live bacteria, and it will not make you sick.
    * A small bump will form on your forearm. It should go away in a few hours.

Be sure to leave the site uncovered and undisturbed.

After 48-72 hours, you will return to your provider's office. During this
visit, your provider will check the injection site for a reaction that may
indicate a TB infection. This includes swelling, redness, and an increase in
size.

 **For a TB test in blood** (also called an IGRA test), a health care
professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small
needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be
collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the
needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't any special preparations for TB skin test or a TB blood test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a TB skin test or blood test. For a TB
skin test, you may feel a pinch when you get the injection.

For a blood test, you may have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the
needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your TB skin test or blood test shows a possible TB infection, your health
care provider will probably order more tests to help make a diagnosis. You may
also need further testing if your results were negative, but you have symptoms
of TB and/or have certain risk factors for TB. Tests that diagnose TB include
chest x-rays and tests on a sputum sample. Sputum is a thick mucous coughed up
from the lungs. It is different than spit or saliva.

If not treated, TB can be deadly. But most cases of TB can be cured if you
take antibiotics as directed by your health care provider. Both active and
latent TB should be treated, because latent TB can turn into active TB and
become dangerous.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a TB screening?

Treating TB takes much longer than treating other types of bacterial
infections. After a few weeks on antibiotics, you will no longer be
contagious, but you will still have TB. To cure TB, you need to take
antibiotics for at least six to nine months. The length of time depends on
your overall health, age, and other factors. It's important to take the
antibiotics for as long as your provider tells you, even if you feel better.
Stopping early can cause the infection to come back.

## References

    1. American Lung Association [Internet]. Chicago: American Lung Association; c2018. Diagnosing and Treating Tuberculosis [updated 2018 Apr 2; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.lung.org/lung-health-and-diseases/lung-disease-lookup/tuberculosis/diagnosing-and-treating-tuberculosis.html
    2. American Lung Association [Internet]. Chicago: American Lung Association; c2018. Tuberculosis (TB) [cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.lung.org/lung-health-and-diseases/lung-disease-lookup/tuberculosis
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Fact Sheets: Tuberculosis: General Information [updated 2011 Oct 28; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/factsheets/general/tb.htm
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tuberculosis Facts: Testing for TB [updated 2016 May 11; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/factseries/skintest_eng.htm
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tuberculosis: Signs and Symptoms [updated 2016 Mar 17; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/topic/basics/signsandsymptoms.htm
    6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tuberculosis: Who Should be Tested [updated 2016 Sep 8; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/tb/topic/testing/whobetested.htm
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. IGRA TB Test [updated 2018 Sep 13; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/igra-tb-test
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Sputum [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/sputum
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. TB Skin Test [updated 2018 Sep 13; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/tb-skin-test
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Tuberculosis [updated 2018 Sep 14; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/tuberculosis
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Tuberculosis: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Jan 4 [cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/tuberculosis/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20351256
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Tuberculosis: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Jan 4 [cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/tuberculosis/symptoms-causes/syc-20351250
    13. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Tuberculosis (TB) [cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/tuberculosis-and-related-infections/tuberculosis-tb
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2018. PPD skin test: Overview [updated 2018 Oct 12; cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/ppd-skin-test
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: TB Screening (Skin) [cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=tb_screen_skin
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: TB Screening (Whole Blood) [cited 2018 Oct 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=tb_screen_blood

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotic Resistance
    * Antibiotics
    * Bacterial Infections
    * Tuberculosis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

