Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/progesterone-test/    
                                Description: A progesterone test measures the level of progesterone in your blood. Progesterone is a female hormone made by the ovaries. The test can be used to find the cause of infertility and to monitor high-risk pregnancies. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Progesterone Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/progesterone-test/

# Progesterone Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a progesterone test?

A progesterone test measures the level of progesterone in the blood.
Progesterone is a hormone made by a woman's ovaries. Progesterone plays an
important role in pregnancy. It helps make your uterus ready to support a
fertilized egg. Progesterone also helps prepare your breasts for making milk.

Progesterone levels vary during a woman's menstrual cycle. The levels start
out low, then increase after the ovaries release an egg. If you become
pregnant, progesterone levels will continue to rise as your body gets ready to
support a developing baby. If you do not become pregnant (your egg is not
fertilized), your progesterone levels will go down and your period will begin.

Progesterone levels in a pregnant woman are about 10 times higher than they
are in a woman who is not pregnant. Men also make progesterone, but in much
smaller amounts. In men, progesterone is made by the adrenal glands and
testes.

Other names: serum progesterone, progesterone blood test, PGSN

## What is it used for?

A progesterone test is used to:

    * Find the cause of a woman's infertility (the inability to make a baby)
    * Find out if and when you are ovulating
    * Find out your risk of a miscarriage
    * Monitor a high-risk pregnancy
    * Diagnose an ectopic pregnancy, a pregnancy that grows in the wrong place (outside the uterus). A developing baby can't survive an ectopic pregnancy. This condition is dangerous, and sometimes life-threatening, for a woman.

## Why do I need a progesterone test?

You may need this test if you are having trouble getting pregnant. A
progesterone test can help your health care provider see if you are ovulating
normally.

If you are pregnant, you may need this test to check the health of your
pregnancy. Your provider may recommend a progesterone test if you are at risk
for miscarriage or other pregnancy complications. Your pregnancy may be at
risk if you have symptoms such as abdominal cramps or bleeding, and/or a
previous history of miscarriage.

## What happens during a progesterone test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a progesterone test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your progesterone levels are higher than normal, it may mean you:

    * Are pregnant
    * Have a cyst on your ovaries
    * Have a molar pregnancy, a growth in the abdomen that causes symptoms of pregnancy
    * Have a disorder of the adrenal glands
    * Have ovarian cancer

Your progesterone levels may be even higher if you are pregnant with two or
more babies.

If your progesterone levels are lower than normal, it may mean you:

    * Have an ectopic pregnancy
    * Had a miscarriage
    * Are not ovulating normally, which can cause fertility problems

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a progesterone test?

Because progesterone levels change throughout your pregnancy and menstrual
cycle, you may need to be retested several times.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; c2018. Serum progesterone [cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wellness.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/3714
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Progesterone [updated 2018 Apr 23; cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/progesterone
    3. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: PGSN: Progesterone Serum: Overview [cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Overview/8141
    4. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Overview of the Female Reproductive System [cited 2018 Apr 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/women-s-health-issues/biology-of-the-female-reproductive-system/overview-of-the-female-reproductive-system
    5. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Quick Facts: Ectopic Pregnancy [cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/quick-facts-women-s-health-issues/complications-of-pregnancy/ectopic-pregnancy
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    7. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2018. Serum Progesterone: Overview [updated 2018 Apr 23; cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/serum-progesterone
    8. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Progesterone [cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=167&ContentID;=progesterone
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Progesterone: Results [updated 2017 Mar 16; cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/progesterone-test/hw42146.html#hw42173
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Progesterone: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 16; cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/progesterone-test/hw42146.html
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Progesterone: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Mar 16; cited 2018 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/progesterone-test/hw42146.html#hw42153

## Related Health Topics

    * Ectopic Pregnancy
    * Female Infertility
    * Health Problems in Pregnancy
    * Hormones
    * Infertility
    * Menstruation
    * Miscarriage
    * Ovarian Cancer
    * Ovarian Cysts
    * Pregnancy

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Estrogen Levels Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 14 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

