Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/hiv-viral-load/    
                                Description: An HIV viral load is a blood test that measures the amount of HIV in your blood. It can determine how well your HIV medicines are working. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

HIV Viral Load

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/hiv-viral-load/

# HIV Viral Load

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an HIV viral load?

An HIV viral load is a blood test that measures the amount of HIV in your
blood. HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. HIV is a virus that
attacks and destroys cells in the immune system. These cells protect your body
against viruses, bacteria, and other disease-causing germs. If you lose too
many immune cells, your body will have trouble fighting off infections and
other diseases.

HIV is the virus that causes AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). HIV
and AIDS are often used to describe the same disease. But most people with HIV
don't have AIDS. People with AIDS have an extremely low number of immune cells
and are at risk for life-threatening illnesses, including dangerous
infections, a severe type of pneumonia, and certain cancers, including Kaposi
sarcoma.

If you have HIV, you can take medicines to protect your immune system, and
they may prevent you from getting AIDS.

Other names: nucleic acid testing, NAT, nucleic acid amplification test, NAAT,
HIV PCR, RNA Test, HIV quantification

## What is it used for?

An HIV viral load test may be used to:

    * Check how well your HIV medicines are working
    * Monitor any changes in your HIV infection
    * Diagnose HIV if you think you've been recently infected

An HIV viral load is an expensive test and is mostly used when a quick result
is needed. Other less expensive types of tests are used more often for
diagnosing HIV.

## Why do I need an HIV viral load?

Your health care provider may order an HIV viral load when you are first
diagnosed with HIV. This initial measurement helps your provider measure how
your condition changes over time. You will probably be tested again every
three to four months to see if your viral levels have changed since your first
test. If you are being treated for HIV, your health care provider may order
regular viral load tests to see how well your medicines are working.

You may also need an HIV viral load if you think you may have been recently
infected. HIV is mainly spread through sexual contact and blood. (It can also
be transmitted from mother to child during birth and through breast milk.) You
may be at higher risk of infection if you:

    * Are a man that has had sex with another man
    * Have had sex with an HIV-infected partner
    * Have had multiple sex partners
    * Have injected drugs, such as heroin, or shared drug needles with someone else

An HIV viral load can find HIV in your blood within days after you've been
infected. Other tests can take several weeks or months to show an infection.
During that time, you could infect someone else without knowing it. An HIV
viral load gives you results sooner, so you can avoid spreading the disease.

## What happens during an HIV viral load?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an HIV viral load. But if you are
getting this test to find out if you are infected with HIV, you should talk
with a counselor before or after your test so you can better understand the
results and your treatment options.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Below is a list of typical results. Your results may vary depending on your
health and even the lab used for testing.

    * A normal result means no HIV was found in your blood, and you are not infected.
    * A low viral load means the virus is not very active and probably means your HIV treatment is working.
    * A high viral load means the virus is more active and your treatment is not working well. The higher the viral load, the more risk you have for problems and diseases related to a weak immune system. It may also mean you are at higher risk for developing AIDS. If your results show a high viral load, your health care provider will probably make changes in your treatment plan.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an HIV viral load?

While there is no cure for HIV, there are better treatments available now than
in the past. Today, people with HIV are living longer, with a better quality
of life than ever before. If you are living with HIV, it's important to see
your health care provider regularly.

## References

    1. AIDSinfo [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; HIV Overview: HIV/AIDS: The Basics [updated 2017 Dec 4; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/understanding-hiv-aids/fact-sheets/19/45/hiv-aids--the-basics
    2. AIDSinfo [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; HIV Overview: HIV Testing [updated 2017 Dec 4; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/understanding-hiv-aids/fact-sheets/19/47/hiv-testing
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; About HIV/AIDS [updated 2017 May 30; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/whatishiv.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Living with HIV [updated 2017 Aug 22; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/livingwithhiv/index.html
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Testing [updated 2017 Sep 14; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/testing.html
    6. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: HIV and AIDS [cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/infectious_diseases/hiv_and_aids_85,P00617
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. HIV Infections and AIDS; [updated 2018 Jan 4; cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/conditions/hiv
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. HIV Viral Load; [updated 2018 Jan 15; cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/hiv-viral-load
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection [cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/human-immunodeficiency-virus-hiv-infection/human-immunodeficiency-virus-hiv-infection
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: HIV Viral Load [cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=hiv_viral_load
    12. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; What is AIDS? [updated 2016 Aug 9; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.hiv.va.gov/patient/basics/what-is-AIDS.asp
    13. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; What is HIV? [updated 2016 Aug 9; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.hiv.va.gov/patient/basics/what-is-HIV.asp
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. HIV Viral Load Measurement: Results [updated 2017 Mar 15; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hiv-viral-load-measurement/tu6396.html#tu6403
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. HIV Viral Load Measurement: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 15; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hiv-viral-load-measurement/tu6396.html
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. HIV Viral Load Measurement: What To Think About [updated 2017 Mar 15; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hiv-viral-load-measurement/tu6396.html#tu6406
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. HIV Viral Load Measurement: Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Mar 15; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hiv-viral-load-measurement/tu6396.html#tu6398

## Related Health Topics

    * HIV/AIDS
    * HIV/AIDS and Infections
    * HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy
    * HIV/AIDS Medicines
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Living with HIV/AIDS

## Related Lab Test Information

    * CD4 Lymphocyte Count
    * HIV Screening Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 21 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

