Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/depression-screening/    
                                Description: A depression screening is used to diagnose depression. Depression is a serious illness that can affect how you think, feel, and behave. Most people with depression feel better after treatment with medicine and/or talk therapy. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Depression Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/depression-screening/

# Depression Screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is depression screening?

A depression screening, also called a depression test, helps find out if you
have depression. Depression is a common, though serious, illness. Everyone
feels sad at times, but depression is different than normal sadness or grief.
Depression can affect how you think, feel, and behave. Depression makes it
hard to function at home and work. You may lose interest in activities you
once enjoyed. Some people with depression feel worthless and are at risk for
harming themselves.

There are different types of depression. The most common types are:

    *  **Major depression** , which causes persistent feelings of sadness, anger, and/or frustration. Major depression lasts for several weeks or longer.
    *  **Persistent depressive disorder** , which causes depressive symptoms that last two years or more.
    *  **Postpartum depression**. Many new mothers feel sad, but postpartum depression causes extreme sadness and anxiety after childbirth. It can make it hard for mothers to care for themselves and/or their babies.
    *  **Seasonal affective disorder** **Â (SAD)**. This form of depression usually happens in winter when there is less sunlight. Most people with SAD feel better in the spring and summer.
    *  **Psychotic depressionÂ** occurs with psychosis, a more serious psychiatric disorder. Psychosis can cause people to lose touch with reality.
    *  **Bipolar disorder** **,Â** formerly called manic depression. People with bipolar disorder have alternating episodes of mania (extreme highs or euphoria) and depression.

Fortunately, most people with depression feel better after treatment with
medicine and/or talk therapy.

Other names: depression test

## What is it used for?

A depression screening is used to help diagnose depression. Your primary care
provider may give you a depression test if you are showing signs of
depression. If the screening shows you have depression, you may need treatment
from a mental health provider. A mental health provider is a health care
professional who specializes in diagnosing and treating mental health
problems. If you are already seeing a mental health provider, you may get a
depression test to help guide your treatment.

## Why do I need depression screening?

You may need depression screening if you are showing signs of depression.
Signs of depression include:

    * Loss of interest or pleasure in daily living and/or other activities, such as hobbies, sports, or sex
    * Anger, frustration, or irritability
    * Sleep problems: trouble falling asleep and/or staying asleep (insomnia) or sleeping too much
    * Fatigue and lack of energy
    * Restlessness
    * Trouble concentrating or making decisions
    * Feelings of guilt or worthlessness
    * Losing or gaining a lot of weight

 **One of the most serious signs of depression is thinking about or
attemptingsuicide.** If you are thinking about hurting yourself, or about
suicide, seek help right away. There are many ways to get help. You can:

    * Call 911 or go to your local emergency room
    * Call your mental health provider or other health care provider
    * Reach out to a loved one or close friend
    * Call a suicide hotline. In the United States, you can call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255)

## What happens during depression screening?

Your primary care provider may give you a physical exam and ask you about your
feelings, mood, sleep habits, and other symptoms. Your provider may also order
a blood test to find out if a disorder, such as anemia or thyroid disease, may
be causing your depression.

During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from
a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

If you are being tested by a mental health provider, he or she may ask you
more detailed questions about your feelings and behaviors. You may also be
asked to fill out a questionnaire about these issues.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for depression screening?

You usually don't need any special preparations for a depression test.

## Are there any risks to screening?

There is no risk to having a physical exam or taking a questionnaire.

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If you are diagnosed with depression, it's important to get treatment as soon
as possible. The sooner you get treatment, the better chance you have of
recovery. Treatment for depression may take a long time, but most people who
get treated eventually feel better.

If your primary care provider diagnosed you, he or she may refer you to a
mental health provider. If a mental health provider diagnosed you, he or she
will recommend a treatment plan based on the type of depression you have and
how serious it is.

## Is there anything else I need to know about depression screening?

There are many types of mental health providers who treat depression. The most
common types of mental health providers include:

    *  **Psychiatrist** , a medical doctor who specializes in mental health. Psychiatrists diagnose and treat mental health disorders. They can also prescribe medicine.
    *  **Psychologist** , a professional trained in psychology. Psychologists generally have doctoral degrees, such as a Ph.D. (Doctor of Philosophy) or a Psy.D. (Doctor of Psychology). But they do not have medical degrees. Psychologists diagnose and treat mental health disorders. They offer one-on-one counseling and/or group therapy sessions. They can't prescribe medicine, unless they have a special license. Some psychologists work with providers who are able to prescribe medicine.
    *  **Licensed clinical social worker** (L.C.S.W.) has a master's degree in social work with training in mental health. Some have additional degrees and training. L.C.S.W.s diagnose and provide counseling for a variety of mental health problems. They can't prescribe medicine, but can work with providers who are able to.
    *  **Licensed professional counselor.** (L.P.C.). Most L.P.C.s have a master's degree. But training requirements vary by state. L.P.C.s diagnose and provide counseling for a variety of mental health problems. They can't prescribe medicine, but can work with providers who are able to.

L.C.S.W.s and L.P.C.s may be known by other names, including therapist,
clinician, or counselor.

If you don't know which type of mental health provider you should see, talk to
your primary care provider.

## References

    1. American Psychiatric Association [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Psychiatric Association; c2018. What Is Depression? [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.psychiatry.org/patients-families/depression/what-is-depression
    2. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Depression [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/womens_health/depression_85,p01512
    3. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Depression (major depressive disorder): Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Feb 3 [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/depression/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20356013
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Depression (major depressive disorder): Symptoms and causes; 2018 Feb 3 [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/depression/symptoms-causes/syc-20356007
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Mental health providers: Tips on finding one; 2017 May 16 [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mental-illness/in-depth/mental-health-providers/art-20045530
    6. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Depression [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/mental-health-disorders/mood-disorders/depression
    7. National Alliance on Mental Illness [Internet]. Arlington (VA): NAMI; c2018. Types of Mental Health Professionals [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Treatment/Types-of-Mental-Health-Professionals
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. National Institute of Mental Health [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Depression [updated 2018 Feb; cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml
    10. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2018. Depression: Overview [updated 2018 Oct 1; cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/depression-overview
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Depression Screening: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Dec 7; cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: Â https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/depression-screening/aba5372.html
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Do I Have Depression?: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Dec 7; cited 2018 Oct 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/do-i-have-depression/ty6747.html#ty6747-sec

## Related Health Topics

    * Antidepressants
    * Bipolar Disorder
    * Depression
    * Mental Health
    * Postpartum Depression
    * Psychotic Disorders
    * Seasonal Affective Disorder

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Mental Health Screening
    * Postpartum Depression Screening

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

