Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/cortisol-test/    
                                Description: A cortisol test measures the level of cortisol in your blood, urine, or saliva. It&#39;s used to help diagnose disorders of the adrenal gland. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Cortisol Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/cortisol-test/

# Cortisol Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a cortisol test?

Cortisol is a hormone that affects almost every organ and tissue in your body.
It plays an important role in helping you to:

    * Respond to stress
    * Fight infection
    * Regulate blood sugar
    * Maintain blood pressure
    * Regulate metabolism, the process of how your body uses food and energy

Cortisol is made by your adrenal glands, two small glands located above the
kidneys. A cortisol test measures the level of cortisol in your blood, urine,
or saliva. Blood tests are the most common way of measuring cortisol. If your
cortisol levels are too high or too low, it may mean you have a disorder of
your adrenal glands. These disorders can be serious if not treated.

Other names: urinary cortisol, salivary cortisol, free cortisol, dexamethasone
suppression test, DST, ACTH stimulation test, blood cortisol, plasma cortisol,
plasma

## What is it used for?

A cortisol test is used to help diagnose disorders of the adrenal gland. These
include Cushing's syndrome, a condition that causes your body to make too much
cortisol, and Addison disease, a condition in which your body doesn't make
enough cortisol.

## Why do I need a cortisol test?

You may need a cortisol test if you have symptoms of Cushing's syndrome or
Addison disease.

Symptoms of Cushing's syndrome include:

    * Obesity, especially in the torso
    * High blood pressure
    * High blood sugar
    * Purple streaks on the stomach
    * Skin that bruises easily
    * Muscle weakness
    * Women may have irregular menstrual periods and excess hair on the face

Symptoms of Addison disease include:

    * Weight loss
    * Fatigue
    * Muscle weakness
    * Abdominal pain
    * Dark patches of skin
    * Low blood pressure
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Diarrhea
    * Decreased body hair

You may also need a cortisol test if you have symptoms of an adrenal crisis, a
life-threatening condition that can happen when your cortisol levels are
extremely low. Symptoms of an adrenal crisis include:

    * Very low blood pressure
    * Severe vomiting
    * Severe diarrhea
    * Dehydration
    * Sudden and severe pain in the abdomen, lower back, and legs
    * Confusion
    * Loss of consciousness

## What happens during a cortisol test?

A cortisol test is usually in the form of a blood test. During a blood test, a
health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

Because cortisol levels change throughout the day, the timing of a cortisol
test is important. A cortisol blood test is usually done twice a dayâonce in
the morning when cortisol levels are at their highest, and again around 4
p.m., when levels are much lower.

Cortisol may also be measured in a urine or saliva test. For a cortisol urine
test, your health care provider may ask you to collect all urine during a
24-hour period. This is called a "24-hour urine sample test." It is used
because cortisol levels vary throughout the day. For this test, your health
care provider or a laboratory professional will give you a container to
collect your urine and instructions on how to collect and store your samples.
A 24-hour urine sample test usually includes the following steps:

    * Empty your bladder in the morning and flush that urine away. Record the time.
    * For the next 24 hours, save all your urine passed in the container provided.
    * Store your urine container in the refrigerator or a cooler with ice.
    * Return the sample container to your health provider's office or the laboratory as instructed.

A cortisol saliva test is usually done at home, late at night, when cortisol
levels are lower. Your health care provider will recommend or provide you with
a kit for this test. The kit will likely include a swab to collect your sample
and a container to store it. Steps usually include the following:

    * Do not eat, drink, or brush your teeth for 15-30 minutes before the test.
    * Collect the sample between 11 p.m. and midnight, or as instructed by your provider.
    * Put the swab into your mouth.
    * Roll the swab in your mouth for about 2 minutes so it can get covered in saliva.
    * Don't touch the tip of the swab with your fingers.
    * Put the swab into the container within the kit and return it to your provider as instructed.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

Stress can raise your cortisol levels, so you may need to rest before your
test. A blood test will require you to schedule two appointments at different
times of the day. Twenty-four hour urine and saliva tests are done at home. Be
sure to follow all the instructions given by your provider.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly. There are no known risks to a urine or saliva test.

## What do the results mean?

High levels of cortisol may mean you have Cushing's syndrome, while low levels
may mean you have Addison disease or another type of adrenal disease. If your
cortisol results are not normal, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a
medical condition needing treatment. Other factors, including infection,
stress, and pregnancy can affect your results. Birth control pills and other
medicines can also affect your cortisol levels. To learn what your results
mean, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a cortisol test?

If your cortisol levels are not normal, your health care provider will likely
order more tests before making a diagnosis. These tests may include additional
blood and urine tests and imaging tests, such as CT (computerized tomography)
and MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scans, which allow your provider to look
at your adrenal and pituitary glands.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Allina Health; c2017. How to Collect a Saliva Sample for a Cortisol Test [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.allinahealth.org/Medical-Services/SalivaryCortisol15014
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Cortisol, Plasma and Urine; 189â90 p.
    3. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Adrenal Glands [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/endocrinology/adrenal_glands_85,p00399
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Cortisol: Common Questions [updated 2015 Oct 30; cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/cortisol/tab/faq
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Cortisol: The Test [updated 2015 Oct 30; cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/cortisol/tab/test
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Cortisol: The Test Sample [updated 2015 Oct 30; cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/cortisol/tab/test
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: 24-Hour Urine Sample [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/urine-24
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Cushing Syndrome [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/adrenal-gland-disorders/cushing-syndrome#v772569
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Overview of the Adrenal Glands [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/adrenal-gland-disorders/overview-of-the-adrenal-glands
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    12. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Adrenal Insufficiency & Addison's Disease; 2014 May [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/adrenal-insufficiency-addisons-disease
    13. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Cushing's Syndrome; 2012 Apr [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/cushings-syndrome
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Cortisol (Blood) [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=cortisol_serum
    15. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Cortisol (Urine) [cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=cortisol_urine
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Health Information: Metabolism [updated 2016 Oct 13; cited 2017 Jul 10]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/definition/metabolism/stm159337.html#stm159337-sec

## Related Health Topics

    * Addison Disease
    * Adrenal Gland Disorders
    * Cushing's Syndrome
    * Hormones
    * Stress

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

