Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/thyroglobulin/    
                                Description: A thyroglobulin test measures the level of thyroglobulin in your blood. It is mostly used to help guide thyroid cancer treatment. If levels of thyroglobulin increase after treatment, it may mean cancer cells are left in the body. Low or undetectable thyroglobulin levels may mean cancer cells are gone. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Thyroglobulin

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/thyroglobulin/

# Thyroglobulin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a thyroglobulin test?

This test measures the level of thyroglobulin in your blood. Thyroglobulin is
a protein made by cells in the thyroid. The thyroid is a small, butterfly-
shaped gland located near the throat. A thyroglobulin test is mostly used as a
tumor marker test to help guide thyroid cancer treatment.

Tumor markers, sometimes called cancer markers, are substances made by cancer
cells or by normal cells in response to cancer in the body. Thyroglobulin is
made by both normal and cancerous thyroid cells.

The main goal of thyroid cancer treatment is to get rid of _all_ thyroid
cells. It usually involves removing the thyroid gland through surgery,
followed by therapy with radioactive iodine (radioiodine). Radioiodine is a
medicine used to destroy any thyroid cells that are left after surgery. It is
most often given as a liquid or in a capsule.

After treatment, there should be little to no thyroglobulin in the blood.
Measuring thyroglobulin levels can show whether thyroid cancer cells are still
in the body after treatment.

Other names: Tg, TGB. thyroglobulin tumor marker

## What is it used for?

A thyroglobulin test is mostly used to:

    * See if thyroid cancer treatment was successful. If thyroglobulin levels stay the same or increase after treatment, it may mean there are still thyroid cancer cells in the body. If thyroglobulin levels decrease or disappear after treatment, it may mean there are no normal or cancerous thyroid cells left in the body.
    * See if cancer has returned after successful treatment.

A healthy thyroid will make thyroglobulin. So a thyroglobulin test is _not_
used to diagnose thyroid cancer.

## Why do I need a thyroglobulin test?

You will probably need this test after you've been treated for thyroid cancer.
Your health care provider may test you regularly to see if any thyroid cells
remain after treatment. You may be tested every few weeks or months, beginning
shortly after treatment ends. After that, you would be tested less often.

## What happens during a thyroglobulin test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You usually don't need any special preparations for a thyroglobulin test. But
you may be asked to avoid taking certain vitamins or supplements. Your health
care provider will let you know if you need to avoid these and/or take any
other special steps.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

You will probably be tested several times, beginning shortly after treatment
ends, then every so often over time. Your results may show that:

    *  **Your thyroglobulin levels are high and/or have increased over time.** This may mean thyroid cancer cells are growing, and/or cancer is starting to spread.
    *  **Little or no thyroglobulin was found.** This may mean that your cancer treatment has worked to remove all thyroid cells from your body.
    *  **Your thyroglobulin levels decreased for a few weeks after treatment, but then started to increase over time.** This may mean your cancer has come back after you've been successfully treated.

If your results show that your thyroglobulin levels are increasing, your
health care provider may prescribe additional radioiodine therapy to remove
remaining cancer cells. Talk to your health care provider if you have
questions about your results and/or treatment.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a thyroglobulin test?

Although a thyroglobulin test is mostly used as a tumor marker test, it is
occasionally used to help diagnose these thyroid disorders:

    * Hyperthyroidism is a condition of having too much thyroid hormone in your blood.
    * Hypothyroidism is a condition of not having enough thyroid hormone.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Tests for Thyroid Cancer [updated 2016 Apr 15; cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/thyroid-cancer/detection-diagnosis-staging/how-diagnosed.html
    2. American Thyroid Association [Internet]. Falls Church (VA): American Thyroid Association; c2018. Clinical Thyroidology for the Public [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.thyroid.org/patient-thyroid-information/ct-for-patients/vol-7-issue-2/vol-7-issue-2-p-7-8
    3. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. Thyroid Cancer: Diagnosis; 2017 Nov [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/thyroid-cancer/diagnosis
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Thyroglobulin [updated 2017 Nov 9; cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/thyroglobulin
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Thyroid cancer: Diagnosis and treatment: 2018 Mar 13 [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/thyroid-cancer/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20354167
    6. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: HTGR: Thyroglobulin, Tumor Marker Reflex to LC-MS/MS or Immunoassay: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/62936
    7. MD Anderson Cancer Center [Internet]. The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center; c2018. Thyroid Cancer [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mdanderson.org/cancer-types/thyroid-cancer.html
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Diagnosis of Cancer [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/cancer/overview-of-cancer/diagnosis-of-cancer
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tumor Markers [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/diagnosis/tumor-markers-fact-sheet
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    11. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Graves' Disease; 2017 Sep [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/graves-disease
    12. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Hashimoto's Disease; 2017 Sep [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/hashimotos-disease
    13. Oncolink [Internet]. Philadelphia: Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania; c2018. Patient Guide to Tumor Markers [updated 2018 Mar 5; cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.oncolink.org/cancer-treatment/procedures-diagnostic-tests/blood-tests-tumor-diagnostic-tests/patient-guide-to-tumor-markers
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Thyroid Cancer: Tests After Diagnosis [cited 2018 Aug 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=34&contentid=17670-1

## Related Health Topics

    * Cancer
    * Hyperthyroidism
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Thyroid Cancer
    * Thyroid Diseases
    * Thyroid Tests

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Thyroxine (T4) Test
    * TSH (Thyroid-stimulating hormone) Test
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

