Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/carbon-dioxide-co2-in-blood/    
                                Description: A CO2 blood test measures the amount of carbon dioxide in your blood. Too much or too little CO2 in the blood can indicate a health problem. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Carbon Dioxide (CO2) in Blood

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/carbon-dioxide-co2-in-
blood/

# Carbon Dioxide (CO2) in Blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a carbon dioxide (CO2) blood test?

Carbon dioxide (CO2) is an odorless, colorless gas. It is a waste product made
by your body. Your blood carries carbon dioxide to your lungs. You breathe out
carbon dioxide and breathe in oxygen all day, every day, without thinking
about it. A CO2 blood test measures the amount of carbon dioxide in your
blood. Too much or too little carbon dioxide in the blood can indicate a
health problem.

Other names: carbon dioxide content, CO2 content, carbon dioxide blood test,
bicarbonate blood test, bicarbonate test, total CO2; TCO2; carbon dioxide
content; CO2 content; bicarb; HCO3

## What is it used for?

A CO2 blood test is often part of a series of tests called an electrolyte
panel. Electrolytes help balance the levels of acids and bases in your body.
Most of the carbon dioxide in your body is in the form of bicarbonate, which
is a type of electrolyte. An electrolyte panel may part of a regular exam. The
test may also help monitor or diagnose conditions related to an electrolyte
imbalance. These include kidney diseases, lung diseases, and high blood
pressure.

## Why do I need a CO2 in blood test?

Your health care provider may have ordered a CO2 blood test as part of your
regular checkup or if you have symptoms of an electrolyte imbalance. These
include:

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Weakness
    * Fatigue
    * Prolonged vomiting and/or diarrhea

## What happens during a CO2 blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a CO2 blood test or an electrolyte
panel. If your health care provider has ordered more tests on your blood
sample, you may need to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before the
test. Your health care provider will let you know if there are any special
instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Abnormal results may indicate that your body has an electrolyte imbalance, or
that there is a problem removing carbon dioxide through your lungs. Too much
CO2 in the blood can indicate a variety of conditions including:

    * Lung diseases
    * Cushingâs syndrome, a disorder of the adrenal glands. Your adrenal glands are located above your kidneys. They help control heart rate, blood pressure, and other body functions. In Cushingâs syndrome, these glands make too much of a hormone called cortisol. It causes a variety of symptoms, including muscle weakness, vision problems, and high blood pressure.
    * Hormonal disorders
    * Kidney disorders
    * Alkalosis, a condition in which you have too much base in your blood

Too little CO2 in the blood may indicate:

    * Addison's disease, another disorder of the adrenal glands. In Addison's disease, the glands don't produce enough of certain types of hormones, including cortisol. The condition can cause a variety of symptoms, including weakness, dizziness, weight loss, and dehydration.
    * Acidosis, a condition in which you have too much acid in your blood
    * Ketoacidosis, a complication of type 1 and type 2 diabetes
    * Shock
    * Kidney disorders

If your test results are not in the normal range, it doesn't necessarily mean
you have a medical condition requiring treatment. Other factors, including
certain medicines, can affect the level of CO2 in your blood. To learn what
your results mean, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a CO2 blood test?

Some prescription and over-the-counter medicines can increase or decrease the
amount of carbon dioxide in your blood. Be sure to tell your health care
provider about any medicines you are taking.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Total Carbon Dioxide Content; p. 488.
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Bicarbonate: The Test; [updated 2016 Jan 26; cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/co2/tab/test_
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Cushing Syndrome; [updated 2017 Nov 29; cited 2019 Feb 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/cushing-syndromeÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
    4. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Addison Disease; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/adrenal-gland-disorders/addison-disease_
    5. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Overview of Acid-Base Balance; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/acid-base-balance/overview-of-acid-base-balance_
    6. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: adrenal gland; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=46678_
    7. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: carbon dioxide; [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=538147_
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Types of Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Types_
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests?; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 6 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors_
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Do Blood Tests Show?; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 7 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests_
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: _https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests_
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Carbon Dioxide (Blood); [cited 2017 Mar 19]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: _https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167 &contentid;=carbon_dioxide_blood_

## Related Health Topics

    * Fluid and Electrolyte Balance
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Kidney Tests
    * Lung Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

