Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ca-19-9-blood-test-pancreatic-cancer/    
                                Description: This test measures the amount of a protein called CA 19-9 in the blood. High levels of CA 19-9 can be a sign of pancreatic cancer, other cancers, or certain noncancerous disorders. The test is often used to monitor treatment for pancreatic cancer. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

CA 19-9 Blood Test (Pancreatic Cancer)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ca-19-9-blood-test-
pancreatic-cancer/

# CA 19-9 Blood Test (Pancreatic Cancer)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a CA 19-9 blood test?

This test measures the amount of a protein called CA 19-9 (cancer antigen
19-9) in the blood. CA 19-9 is a type of tumor marker. Tumor markers are
substances made by cancer cells or by normal cells in response to cancer in
the body.

Healthy people can have small amounts of CA 19-9 in their blood. High levels
of CA 19-9 are often a sign of pancreatic cancer. But sometimes, high levels
can indicate other types of cancer or certain noncancerous disorders,
including cirrhosis and gallstones.

Because high levels of CA 19-9 can mean different things, the test is not used
by itself to screen for or diagnose cancer. It can help monitor the progress
of your cancer and the effectiveness of cancer treatment.

Other names: cancer antigen 19-9, carbohydrate antigen 19-9

## What is it used for?

A CA 19-9 blood test may be used to:

    * Monitor pancreatic cancer and cancer treatment. CA 19-9 levels often go up as cancer spreads, and go down as tumors shrink.
    * See if cancer has returned after treatment.

The test is sometimes used with other tests to help confirm or rule out
cancer.

## Why do I need a CA 19-9 test?

You may need a CA 19-9 blood test if you've been diagnosed with pancreatic
cancer or other type of cancer related to high levels of CA 19-9. These
cancers include bile duct cancer, colon cancer, and stomach cancer.

Your health care provider may test you on a regular basis to see if your
cancer treatment is working. You may also be tested after your treatment is
complete to see if the cancer has come back.

## What happens during a CA 19-9 blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a CA 19-9 blood test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If you are being treated for pancreatic cancer or other type of cancer, you
may be tested several times throughout your treatment. After repeated tests,
your results may show:

    *  **Your levels of CA 19-9 are increasing.** This may mean your tumor is growing, and/or your treatment is not working.
    *  **Your levels of CA 19-9 are decreasing.** This may mean your tumor is shrinking and your treatment is working.
    *  **Your levels of CA 19-9 have not increased or decreased.** This may mean your disease is stable.
    *  **Your CA 19-9 levels decreased, but then later increased.** This may mean your cancer has come back after you've been treated.

If you do not have cancer and your results show a higher than normal level of
CA 19-9, it may be a sign of one of the following noncancerous disorders:

    * Pancreatitis, a noncancerous swelling of the pancreas
    * Gallstones
    * Bile duct blockage
    * Liver disease
    * Cystic fibrosis

If your health care provider suspects you have one of these disorders, he or
she will probably order more tests to confirm or rule out a diagnosis.

Talk to your health care provider if you have questions about your results.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a CA 19-9 test?

CA 19-9 testing methods and results can vary from lab to lab. If you are
getting tested regularly to monitor treatment for cancer, you may want to talk
to your health care provider about using the same lab for all your tests, so
your results will be consistent.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; CA 19-9 Measurement [updated 2016 Mar 29; cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.allinahealth.org/CCS/doc/Thomson%20Consumer%20Lab%20Database/49/150320.htm
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Pancreatic Cancer Stages [updated 2017 Dec 18; cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/pancreatic-cancer/detection-diagnosis-staging/staging.html
    3. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. Pancreatic Cancer: Diagnosis; 2018 May [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/pancreatic-cancer/diagnosis
    4. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Cancer Tumor Markers (CA 15-3 [27, 29], CA 19-9, CA-125, and CA-50); 121 p.
    5. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Pancreatic Cancer Diagnosis [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/digestive_disorders/pancreatic_cancer_diagnosis_22,pancreaticcancerdiagnosis
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Cancer Antigen 19-9 [updated 2018 Jul 6; cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/cancer-antigen-19-9
    7. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: CA19: Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9), Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/9288
    8. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: CA 19-9 [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=CA+19-9
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tumor Markers [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/diagnosis/tumor-markers-fact-sheet
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    11. Pancreatic Cancer Action Network [Internet]. Manhattan Beach (CA): Pancreatic Action Network; c2018. CA 19-9 [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.pancan.org/facing-pancreatic-cancer/diagnosis/ca19-9/#what
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Lab Tests for Cancer [cited 2018 Jul 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=p07248; www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/breast-cancer-brca-gene-test/tu6462.html#tu646

## Related Health Topics

    * Bile Duct Cancer
    * Cancer
    * Cirrhosis
    * Colorectal Cancer
    * Gallstones
    * Pancreatic Cancer
    * Stomach Cancer

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Alpha Fetoprotein (AFP) Tumor Marker Test
    * CA-125 Blood Test (Ovarian Cancer)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Lung Cancer Tumor Markers
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

