Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/amylase-test/    
                                Description: An amylase test is used to measure levels of amylase in the blood or urine. Abnormal levels may indicate a disorder of the pancreas. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Amylase Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/amylase-test/

# Amylase Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an amylase test?

An amylase test measures the amount of amylase in your blood or urine. Amylase
is an enzyme, or special protein, that helps you digest food. Most of your
amylase is made in the pancreas and salivary glands. A small amount of amylase
in your blood and urine is normal. A larger or smaller amount may mean that
you have a disorder of the pancreas, an infection, alcoholism, or another
medical condition.

Other names: Amy test, serum amylase, urine amylase

## What is it used for?

An **amylase blood test** is used to diagnose or monitor a problem with your
pancreas, including pancreatitis, an inflammation of the pancreas. An
**amylase urine test** may be ordered along with or after an amylase blood
test. Urine amylase results can help diagnose pancreatic and salivary gland
disorders. One or both types of tests may be used to help monitor amylase
levels in people who are being treated for pancreatic or other disorders.

## Why do I need an amylase test?

Your health care provider may order an amylase blood and/or urine test if you
have symptoms of a pancreatic disorder. These symptoms include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Loss of appetite
    * Fever

Your provider may also order an amylase test to monitor an existing condition,
such as:

    * Pancreatitis
    * Pregnancy
    * Eating disorder

## What happens during an amylase test?

For an amylase blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample
from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

For an amylase urine test, you will be given instructions to provide a "clean
catch" sample. The clean catch method includes the following steps:

    1. Wash your hands
    2. Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    3. Start to urinate into the toilet.
    4. Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    5. Collect at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amounts.
    6. Finish urinating into the toilet.
    7. Return the sample container as instructed by your health care provider.

Your health care provider may request that you collect all your urine during a
24-hour period. For this test, your health care provider or laboratory will
give you a container and specific instructions on how to collect your samples
at home. Be sure to follow all instructions carefully. This 24-hour urine
sample test is used because the amounts of substances in urine, including
amylase, can vary throughout the day. So collecting several samples in a day
may give a more accurate picture of your urine content.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an amylase blood or urine test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. During a blood test, you may
have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most
symptoms go away quickly.

There is no known risk to having a urine test.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show an abnormal level of amylase in your blood or urine, it
may mean you have a disorder of the pancreas or other medical condition.

High levels of amylase may indicate:

    * Acute pancreatitis, a sudden and severe inflammation of the pancreas. When treated promptly, it usually gets better within a few days.
    * A blockage in the pancreas
    * Pancreatic cancer

Low levels of amylase can indicate:

    * Chronic pancreatitis, an inflammation of the pancreas that gets worse over time and can lead to permanent damage. Chronic pancreatitis is most often caused by heavy alcohol use.
    * Liver disease
    * Cystic fibrosis

Be sure to tell your health care provider about any prescription or over-the-
counter medicines you are taking, as they can affect your results. To learn
more about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an amylase test?

If your health care provider suspects you have pancreatitis, he or she may
order a lipase blood test, along with an amylase blood test. Lipase is another
enzyme produced by the pancreas. Lipase tests are considered to be more
accurate for detecting pancreatitis, especially in pancreatitis related to
alcohol abuse.

## References

    1. AARP [Internet]. Washington: AARP; Health Encyclopedia: Amylase Blood Test; 2012 Aug 7 [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://healthtools.aarp.org/articles/#/health/amylase-blood
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Amylase, Serum; p. 41â2.
    3. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Amylase, Urine; p. 42â3.
    4. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Acute Pancreatitis [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/digestive_disorders/acute_pancreatitis_22,acutepancreatitis
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Amylase: Common Questions [updated 2015 Feb 24; cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/amylase/tab/faq/
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Amylase: The Test [updated 2015 Feb 24; cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/amylase/tab/test
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Amylase: The Test Sample [updated 2015 Feb 24; cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/amylase/tab/sample
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: 24-hour urine sample [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/urine-24
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: Enzyme [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/enzyme
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Lipase: The Test Sample [updated 2015 Feb 24; cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/lipase/tab/sampleTP
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Urinalysis: What you can expect; 2016 Oct 19 [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/details/what-you-can-expect/rec-20255393
    12. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Urinalysis [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/diagnosis-of-kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/urinalysis
    13. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: amylase [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=46211
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    15. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    16. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Pancreatitis; 2012 Aug [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/pancreatitis
    17. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What are proteins and what do they do?; 2017 Apr 18 [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/howgeneswork/protein
    18. Saint Francis Health System [Internet]. Tulsa (OK): Saint Francis Health System; c2016. Patient Information: Collecting a Clean Catch Urine Sample [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.saintfrancis.com/lab/Documents/Collecting%20a%20Clean%20Catch%20Urine.pdf
    19. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Amylase (Blood) [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=amylase_blood
    20. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Amylase (Urine) [cited 2017 Apr 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=amylase_urine

## Related Health Topics

    * Pancreatic Diseases
    * Pancreatitis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 20 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

