Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/dental-exam/    
                                Description: A dental exam is a checkup of your teeth and gums. Most people should have an exam every six months. Regular dental exams can find mouth problems early, when they are easier to treat. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Dental Exam

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/dental-exam/

# Dental Exam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a dental exam?

A dental exam is a checkup of your teeth and gums. Most children and adults
should get a dental exam every six months. These exams are important for
protecting oral health. Oral health problems can become serious and painful if
not treated promptly.

Dental exams are usually performed by both a dentist and a dental hygienist. A
dentist is a doctor specially trained to care for teeth and gums. A dental
hygienist is a health care professional trained to clean teeth and help
patients maintain good oral health habits. Although dentists can treat people
of all ages, children often go to pediatric dentists. Pediatric dentists are
dentists who have received additional training to focus on dental care for
children.

Other names: dental checkup, oral exam

## What is it used for?

Dental exams are used to help find tooth decay, gum disease, and other oral
health problems early, when they're easier to treat. The exams are also used
to help educate people on the best ways to care for their teeth and gums.

## Why do I need a dental exam?

Most adults and children should get a dental exam every six months. If you
have swollen, bleeding gums (known as gingivitis) or other gum disease, your
dentist may want to see you more often. Some adults with gum disease may see a
dentist three or four times a year. More frequent exams may help prevent a
serious gum disease known as periodontitis. Periodontitis can lead to
infection and tooth loss.

Babies should have their first dental appointment within six months of getting
their first tooth, or by 12 months of age. After that, they should get an exam
every six months, or according to the recommendation of your child's dentist.
Also, your child may need to have more frequent visits if the dentist finds a
problem with tooth development or other another oral health issue.

## What happens during a dental exam?

A typical dental exam will include a cleaning by a hygienist, x-rays on
certain visits, and a checkup of your mouth by the dentist.

 **During a cleaning:**

    * You or your child will sit in a large chair. A bright overhead light will shine above you. The hygienist will clean your teeth using small, metal dental tools. He or she will scrape your teeth to remove plaque and tartar. Plaque is a sticky film that contains bacteria and coats teeth. If plaque builds up on teeth, it turns into tartar, a hard mineral deposit that can get trapped at the bottom of teeth.
    * The hygienist will floss your teeth.
    * He or she will brush your teeth, using a special electric toothbrush.
    * He or she may then apply a fluoride gel or foam to your teeth. Fluoride is a mineral that prevents tooth decay. Tooth decay can lead to cavities. Fluoride treatments are given to children more often than to adults.
    * The hygienist or dentist may give you tips on how to care for your teeth, including proper brushing and flossing techniques.

Dental x-rays are images that can show cavities, gum disease, bone loss, and
other problems that can't be seen by just looking at the mouth.

 **During an x-ray** , the dentist or hygienist will:

    * Place a thick covering, called a lead apron, over your chest. You may get an additional covering for your neck to protect your thyroid gland. These coverings protect the rest of your body from radiation.
    * Have you bite down on a small piece of plastic.
    * Place a scanner outside your mouth. He or she will take a picture, while standing behind a protective shield or other area.
    * For certain types of x-rays, you will repeat this process, biting down in different areas of your mouth, as instructed by the dentist or hygienist.

There are different types of dental x-rays. A type called a full-mouth series
may be taken once every few years to check your overall oral health. Another
type, called bitewing x-rays, may be used more often to check for cavities or
other tooth problems.

 **During the dentist's checkup** , the dentist will:

    * Check your x-rays, if you've had them, for cavities or other problems.
    * Look at your teeth and gums to see if they are healthy.
    * Check the bite (the way the top and bottom teeth fit together). If there is a bite problem, you may be referred to an orthodontist.
    * Check for oral cancer. This includes feeling under your jaw, checking the insides of your lips, the sides of your tongue, and on the roof and floor of your mouth.

In addition to the above checks, a pediatric dentist may check to see if your
child's teeth are developing normally.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for a dental exam?

If you have certain health conditions, you may need to take antibiotics before
your exam. These conditions include:

    * Heart problems
    * Immune system disorders
    * Recent surgery

If you're not sure whether you need to take antibiotics, talk to your dentist
and/or other health care provider.

Also, some people feel anxious about going to the dentist. If you or your
child feels this way, you may want to talk to the dentist beforehand. He or
she may be able to help you or your child feel more relaxed and comfortable
during the exam.

## Are there any risks to a dental exam?

There is very little risk to having a dental exam. The cleaning may be
uncomfortable, but it is not usually painful.

Dental x-rays are safe for most people. The dose of radiation in an x-ray is
very low. But x-rays are not usually recommended for pregnant women, unless
it's an emergency. Be sure to tell your dentist if you are pregnant or think
you may be pregnant.

## What do the results mean?

Results may include one or more of the following conditions:

    * A cavity
    * Gingivitis or other gum problems
    * Bone loss or tooth development problems

If results show that you or your child has a cavity, you probably will need to
make another appointment with the dentist to treat it. If you have questions
about how cavities are treated, talk to the dentist.

If results show that you have gingivitis or other gum problems, your dentist
may recommend:

    * Improving your brushing and flossing habits.
    * More frequent dental cleanings and/or dental exams.
    * Using a medicated mouth rinse.
    * That you see a periodontist, a specialist in diagnosing and treating gum disease.

If bone loss or tooth development problems are found, you may need more tests
and/or dental treatments.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a dental exam?

To keep your mouth healthy, you'll need to take good care of your teeth and
gums, both by having regular dental exams and practicing good dental habits at
home. Good home oral care includes the following steps:

    * Brush your teeth twice a day using a soft-bristled brush. Brush for about two minutes.
    * Use a toothpaste that has fluoride. Fluoride helps prevent tooth decay and cavities.
    * Floss at least once a day. Flossing removes plaque, which can damage teeth and gums.
    * Replace your toothbrush every three or four months.
    * Eat a healthy diet, avoiding or limiting sweets and sugary drinks. If you do eat or drink sweets, brush your teeth soon after.
    * Don't smoke. Smokers have more oral health problems than nonsmokers.

## References

    1. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Itaska (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2019. What is a Pediatric Dentist? [updated 2016 Feb 10; cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/family-life/health-management/pediatric-specialists/Pages/What-is-a-Pediatric-Dentist.aspx
    2. America's Pediatric Dentists [Internet]. Chicago: American Academy of Pediatric Dentists; c2019. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) [cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.aapd.org/resources/parent/faq
    3. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Going to the Dentist [cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/kids/go-dentist.html
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Dental Exam: About 2018 Jan 16 [cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/dental-exam/about/pac-20393728
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Gingivitis: Symptoms and causes; 2017 Aug 4 [cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/gingivitis/symptoms-causes/syc-20354453
    6. National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Gum Disease [cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nidcr.nih.gov/health-info/gum-disease/more-info
    7. Radiology Info.org [Internet]. Radiological Society of North America, Inc.; c2019. Panoramic Dental X-ray [cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.radiologyinfo.org/en/info.cfm?pg=panoramic-xray
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Dental care-adult: Overview [updated 2019 Mar 17; cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/dental-care-adult
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Gingivitis: Overview [updated 2019 Mar 17; cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/gingivitis
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: A Child's First Dental Visit Fact Sheet [cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=1&contentid=1509
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Basic Dental Care: Topic Overview [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/basic-dental-care/hw144414.html#hw144416
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Dental Checkups for Children and Adults: Topic Overview [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/dental-checkups-for-children-and-adults/tc4059.html
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Dental X-Rays: How It Is Done [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/x-rays/hw211991.html#aa15351
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Dental X-Rays: Test Overview [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Mar 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/x-rays/hw211991.html#hw211994

## Related Health Topics

    * Dental Health
    * Endocarditis
    * Gum Disease
    * Oral Cancer
    * Tooth Decay

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

