Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/alt-blood-test/    
                                Description: An ALT blood test is used to diagnose liver disorders. ALT is a liver enzyme that is released in the blood when liver cells are damaged. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

ALT Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/alt-blood-test/

# ALT Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an ALT blood test?

ALT, which stands for alanine transaminase, is an enzyme found mostly in the
liver. When liver cells are damaged, they release ALT into the bloodstream. An
ALT test measures the amount of ALT in the blood. High levels of ALT in the
blood can indicate a liver problem, even before you have signs of liver
disease, such as jaundice, a condition that causes your skin and eyes to turn
yellow. An ALT blood test may be helpful in early detection of liver disease.

Other names: Alanine Transaminase (ALT), SGPT, Serum Glutamic-Pyruvic
Transaminase, GPT

## What is it used for?

An ALT blood test is a type of liver function test. Liver function tests may
be part of a regular checkup. The test can also help diagnose liver problems.

## Why do I need an ALT blood test?

Your health care provider may have ordered liver function tests, including an
ALT blood test, as part of a routine exam or if you have symptoms of liver
damage. These may include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Jaundice
    * Abdominal pain
    * Loss of appetite
    * Unusual itching
    * Tiredness

Because ALT in the bloodstream can indicate liver damage before symptoms
appear, your health care provider may order an ALT blood test if you are at a
higher risk for liver damage. Risk factors for liver disease include:

    * Family history of liver disease
    * Heavy drinking
    * Exposure or possible exposure to hepatitis virus
    * Obesity
    * Diabetes
    * Taking certain medicines that can cause liver damage

## What happens during an ALT blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an ALT blood test. If your health
care provider has ordered more tests on your blood sample, you may need to
fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care
provider will let you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

An ALT blood test is often part of liver function testing. Liver function
tests measure several different proteins, substances, and enzymes and can
determine how well your liver is working. Your health care provider may
compare your ALT results with the results of other liver tests to help learn
more about your liver function. High levels of ALT may indicate liver damage
from hepatitis, infection, cirrhosis, liver cancer, or other liver diseases.

Other factors, including medicines, can affect your results. Be sure to tell
your health care provider about all the prescription and over-the counter
medicines you are taking.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an ALT blood test?

ALT used to be called SGPT, which stands for serum glutamic-pyruvic
transaminase. The ALT blood test was formerly known as the SGPT test.

## References

    1. American Liver Foundation. [Internet]. New York: American Liver Foundation; c2017. Liver Function Tests; [updated 2016 Jan 25; cited 2017 Mar 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: _http://www.liverfoundation.org/abouttheliver/info/liverfunctiontests/_
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT); p. 31.
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. ALT: The Test; [updated 2016 Apr 28; cited 2017 Mar 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/alt/tab/test/_
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Liver Panel: The Test; [updated 2016 Mar 10; cited 2017 Mar 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/liver-panel/tab/test/_
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Elevated liver enzymes; Overview; 2018 Jan 11 [cited 2019 Jan 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â _https://www.mayoclinic.org/symptoms/elevated-liver-enzymes/basics/causes/sym-20050830_
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Liver disease: Overview; 2014 Jul 15 [cited 2017 Mar 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â _http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/liver-problems/basics/risk-factors/con-20025300_
    7. MD Anderson Cancer Center [Internet]. Houston: The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center; c2019.Â Overview; 2018 Jan 11 [cited 2019 Jan 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.mdanderson.org/newsroom/common-medical-screen-predicts-liver-cancer-risk-in-general-popu.h00-158754690.html_
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests?; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Mar 18]; [about 6 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors_
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Mar 18]; [about 5 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests_
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: ALT; [cited 2017 Mar 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167 &contentid;=alt_sgpt_

## Related Health Topics

    * Liver Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Liver Function Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

