Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/yeast-infection-tests/    
                                Description: Yeast infections can occur in the skin, nails, mouth, and genital area. A yeast test is used to detect and diagnose a yeast infection. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Yeast Infection Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/yeast-infection-tests/

# Yeast Infection Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a yeast test?

Yeast is a type of fungus that can live on the skin, mouth, digestive tract,
and genitals. Some yeast in the body is normal, but if there is an overgrowth
of yeast on your skin or other areas, it can cause an infection. A yeast test
can help determine whether you have a yeast infection. Candidiasis is another
name for a yeast infection.

Other names: potassium hydroxide preparation, fungal culture; fungal antigen
and antibody tests, calcofluor white stain, fungal smear

## What is it used for?

A yeast test is used to diagnose and detect yeast infections. There are
different methods of yeast testing, depending on where you have symptoms.

## Why do I need a yeast test?

Your health care provider may order a test if you have symptoms of a yeast
infection. Your symptoms will vary, depending on where the infection is on
your body. Yeast infections tend to happen in moist areas of the skin and
mucous membranes. Below are symptoms of some common types of yeast infections.
Your individual symptoms may vary.

 **Yeast infections on the folds of the skin** include conditions such as
athlete's foot and diaper rash. Symptoms include:

    * Bright red rash, often redness or ulcers in the skin
    * Itching
    * Burning sensation
    * Pimples

 **Yeast infections on the vagina** are common. Nearly 75% of women will get
at least one yeast infection in their lifetime. Symptoms include:

    * Genital itching and/or burning
    * A white, cottage cheese-like discharge
    * Painful urination
    * Redness in the vagina

 **Yeast infection of the penis** may cause:

    * Redness
    * Scaling
    * Rash

 **Yeast infection of the mouth** is called thrush. It is common in young
children. Thrush in adults may indicate a weakened immune system. Symptoms
include:

    * White patches on the tongue and inside of cheeks
    * Soreness on the tongue and inside of cheeks

 **Yeast infection at the corners of the mouth** may be caused by thumb
sucking, ill-fitting dentures, or frequent licking of the lips. Symptoms
include:

    * Cracks and tiny cuts at the corners of the mouth

 **Yeast infection in the nail beds** can happen in the fingers or toes, but
are more common in toenails. Symptoms include:

    * Pain and redness around the nail
    * Discoloration of nail
    * Cracks in the nail
    * Swelling
    * Pus
    * White or yellow nail that separates from nail bed

## What happens during a yeast test?

The type of test depends on the location of your symptoms:

    *  **If a vaginal yeast infection is suspected** , your health care provider will perform a pelvic exam and take a sample of the discharge from your vagina.
    *  **If thrush is suspected** , your health care provider will look at the infected area in the mouth and may also take a small scraping to examine under the microscope.
    *  **If a yeast infection is suspected on the skin or nails** , your health care provider may use a blunt-edged instrument to scrape off a small bit of skin or part of a nail for examination. During this type of test, you may feel some pressure and a little discomfort.

Your health care provider may be able to tell if you have a yeast infection
just by examining the infected area and looking at the cells under a
microscope. If there are not enough cells to detect an infection, you may need
a culture test. During a culture test, the cells in your sample will be put in
a special environment in a lab to encourage cell growth. Results are often
available within a few days. But some yeast infections grow slowly, and it may
take weeks to get a result.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a yeast test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a yeast test.

## What do the results mean?

If your results indicate a yeast infection, your health care provider may
recommend an over-the-counter antifungal medicine or prescribe an antifungal
medicine. Depending on where your infection is, you may need a vaginal
suppository, a medicine applied directly to the skin, or a pill. Your health
care provider will tell you which treatment is best for you.

Itâs important to take all your medicine as prescribed, even if you feel
better sooner. Many yeast infections get better after a few days or weeks of
treatment, but certain fungal infections may need to be treated for several
months or longer before they clear up.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a yeast test?

Certain antibiotics can also cause an overgrowth of yeast. Be sure to tell
your health care provider about any medicines you are taking.

Yeast infections of the blood, heart, and brain are less common but more
serious than yeast infections of the skin and genitals. Serious yeast
infections occur more often in hospital patients and in people with weakened
immune systems.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Candidiasis; [updated 2016 Oct 6; cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: _https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/candidiasis/_
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Fungal Nail Infections; [updated 2017 Jan 25; cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 9 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/nail-infections.html_
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Invasive Candidiasis; [updated 2015 Jun 12; cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 8 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/candidiasis/invasive/index.html_
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Oropharyngeal /Esophageal Candidiasis ("Thrush"); [updated 2014 Feb 13; cited 2017 Apr 28]; [about 5 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/candidiasis/thrush/_
    5. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Candida Antibodies; p. 122Â Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Fungal Tests; [updated 2018 Dec 21; cited 2019 Apr 1]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: _https://labtestsonline.org/tests/fungal-tests_
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Fungal Tests: The Test; [updated 2016 Oct 4; cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/fungal/tab/test/_
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Fungal Tests: The Test Sample; [updated 2016 Oct 4; cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â _https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/fungal/tab/sample/_
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: Culture; [cited 2017 Apr 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â _https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/culture_
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Oral Thrush: Tests and diagnosis; 2014 Aug 12 [cited 2017 Apr 28]; [about 7 screens]. Available from:Â _http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/oral-thrush/basics/tests-diagnosis/con-20022381_
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2016. Candidiasis; [cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/fungal-infections/candidiasis_
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2016. Candidiasis (Yeast Infection); [cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/skin-disorders/fungal-skin-infections/candidiasis-yeast-infection_
    12. Mount Sinai [Internet]. Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai; c2017. Skin Lesion KOH Exam; 2015 Apr 4 [cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.mountsinai.org/health-library/tests/skin-lesion-koh-exam_
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Microscopic Yeast Infection; [cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85 &contentid;=P00265_
    14. WomensHealth.gov [Internet]. Washington DC: Office on Women's Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Vaginal yeast infection; [updated 2015 Jan 6; cited 2017 Feb 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from:Â _https://www.womenshealth.gov/publications/our-publications/fact-sheet/vaginal-yeast-infections.html_

## Related Health Topics

    * Fungal Infections
    * Vaginitis
    * Yeast Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

