Link: https://medlineplus.gov/healthysleep.html    
                                Description: Sleep is critical to your health and well-being. Learn about why you need sleep, how much you need, and how you can get better sleep.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Healthy Sleep

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/healthysleep.html

#  Healthy Sleep

Also called: Sleep Hygeine

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials
    * Games

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is sleep?

While you are sleeping, you are unconscious, but your brain and body functions
are still active. Sleep is a complex biological process that helps you process
new information, stay healthy, and feel rested.

During sleep, your brain cycles through five stages: stage 1, 2, 3, 4, and
rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Different things happen during each stage. For
example, you have a different pattern of brain waves during each one. Your
breathing, heart, and temperature may be slower or faster in some stages.
Certain phases of sleep help you

    * Feel rested and energetic the next day
    * Learn information, get insight, and form memories
    * Give your heart and vascular system a rest
    * Release more growth hormone, which helps children grow. It also boosts muscle mass and the repair of cells and tissues in children and adults.
    * Release sex hormones, which contributes to puberty and fertility
    * Keep from getting sick or help you get better when you are sick, by creating more cytokines (hormones that help the immune system fight various infections)

You need all of the stages to get a healthy sleep.

### How much sleep do I need?

The amount of sleep you need depends on several factors, including your age,
lifestyle, health, and whether you have been getting enough sleep recently.
The general recommendations for sleep are

    * **Newborns:** 16-18 hours a day
    * **Preschool-aged children:** 11-12 hours a day
    * **School-aged children:** At least 10 hours a day
    * **Teens:** 9-10 hours a day
    * **Adults (including older adults):** 7-8 hours a day

During puberty, teenagers' biological clocks shift, and they are more likely
to go to bed later than younger children and adults, and they tend to want to
sleep later in the morning. This delayed sleep-wake rhythm conflicts with the
early-morning start times of many high schools and helps explain why most
teenagers do not get enough sleep.

Some people think that adults need less sleep as they age. But there is no
evidence to show that older adults can get by with less sleep than people who
are younger. As people age, however, they often get less sleep or they tend to
spend less time in the deep, restful stage of sleep. Older adults are also
more easily awakened.

And it's not just the number of hours of sleep you get that matters. The
quality of the sleep you get is also important. People whose sleep is
frequently interrupted or cut short might not get enough of certain stages of
sleep.

If you are wondering whether you are getting enough sleep, including quality
sleep, ask yourself

    * Do you have trouble getting up in the morning?
    * Do you have trouble focusing during the day?
    * Do you doze off during the day?

If you answered yes to these three questions, you should work on improving
your sleep.

### What are the health effects of not getting enough sleep?

Sleep is important for overall health. When you don't get enough sleep (sleep
deprivation), it does more than just make you feel tired. It can affect your
performance, including your ability to think clearly, react quickly, and form
memories. This may cause you to make bad decisions and take more risks. People
with sleep deprivation are more likely to get into accidents.

Sleep deprivation can also affect your mood, leading to

    * Irritability
    * Problems with relationships, especially for children and teenagers
    * Depression
    * Anxiety

It can also affect your physical health. Research shows that not getting
enough sleep, or getting poor-quality sleep, increases your risk of

    * High blood pressure
    * Heart disease
    * Stroke
    * Kidney disease
    * Obesity
    * Type 2 diabetes

Not getting enough sleep can also mean that you don't get enough of the
hormones that help children grow and help adults and children build muscle
mass, fight infections, and repair cells.

Sleep deprivation magnifies the effect of alcohol. A tired person who drinks
too much alcohol will be more impaired than a well-rested person.

### How can I get better sleep?

You can take steps to improve your sleep habits. First, make sure that you
allow yourself enough time to sleep. With enough sleep each night, you may
find that you're happier and more productive during the day.

To improve your sleep habits, it also may help to

    * Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day
    * Avoid caffeine, especially in the afternoon and evening
    * Avoid nicotine
    * Exercise regularly, but don't exercise too late in the day
    * Avoid alcoholic drinks before bed
    * Avoid large meals and beverages late at night
    * Don't take a nap after 3 p.m.
    * Relax before bed, for example by taking a bath, reading or listening to relaxing music
    * Keep the temperature in your bedroom cool
    * Get rid of distractions such as noises, bright lights, and a TV or computer in the bedroom. Also, don't be tempted to go on your phone or tablet just before bed.
    * Get enough sunlight exposure during the day
    * Don't lie in bed awake; if you can't sleep for 20 minutes, get up and do something relaxing
    * See a doctor if you have continued trouble sleeping. You may have a sleep disorder, such as insomnia or sleep apnea. In some cases, your doctor may suggest trying over-the-counter or prescription sleep aid. In other cases, your doctor may want you to do a sleep study, to help diagnose the problem.

If you are a shift worker, it can be even harder to get a good sleep. You may
also want to

    * Take naps and increase the amount of time available for sleep
    * Keep the lights bright at work
    * Limit shift changes so your body clock can adjust
    * Limit caffeine use to the first part of your shift
    * Remove sound and light distractions in your bedroom during daytime sleep (for example, use light-blocking curtains)

## Start Here

    * About Sleep ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * At-a-Glance: Healthy Sleep ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * In Brief: Your Guide to Healthy Sleep ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Will a Bedtime Snack Help Me Sleep Bettter? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Drowsy Driving (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Napping: Do's and Don'ts for Healthy Adults (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Sleep Deprivation: A Cause of High Blood Pressure? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Tick Tock: Your Body Clocks: Understanding Your Daily Rhythms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Are You Getting Enough Sleep? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Brain Basics: Understanding Sleep ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Circadian Rhythms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of General Medical Sciences) Also in Spanish
    * Healthy Sleep Habits (American Academy of Sleep Medicine)
    * Shift Work: Improving Daytime Sleep (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep Health -- Healthy People 2020 (Department of Health and Human Services)
    * Sleep Tips: 7 Steps to Better Sleep (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Some Myths About Sleep? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * What Happens During Sleep? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * What Makes Us Sleep? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Sleep (Defense Health Agency)

## Games

    * Sleep for Kids: Games and Puzzles (National Sleep Foundation)

## Statistics and Research

    * FastStats: Sleep Health (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Sleep On It: How Snoozing Strengthens Memories ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sleep Hygiene ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sleep Quality ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Isotemporal substitution of inactive time with physical activity and time in...
    * Article: Standardised criteria for classifying the International Classification of Activities for Time-use...
    * Article: Associations of 24-hours activity composition with adiposity and cardiorespiratory fitness: The...
    * Healthy Sleep -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * National Center on Sleep Disorders Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * All about Sleep (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Baby Naps: Daytime Sleep Tips (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * New Parents: How to Get the Sleep You Need (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep and Newborns (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep and Your Preschooler (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Getting Enough Sleep (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * How Much Sleep Do I Need? (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Sleep and Women (American Academy of Sleep Medicine)
    * Sleeping during Pregnancy (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Good Night's Sleep ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep Changes in Older Adults (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Changing your sleep habits (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep and your health (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Healthy Sleep](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthySleep.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Aging changes in sleep
    * Can't sleep? Try these tips
    * Changing your sleep habits
    * Natural short sleeper
    * Sleep and your health

## Related Health Topics

    * Sleep Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Healthy Sleep is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Healthy Sleep_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Are You Getting Enough Sleep?

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 31 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 26 April 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

