Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/csf-immunoglobulin-g-igg-index/    
                                Description: A CSF IgG index measures the level of certain antibodies in your cerebrospinal fluid. It is used to help diagnose multiple sclerosis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

CSF Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Index

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/csf-immunoglobulin-g-igg-
index/

# CSF Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Index

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a CSF IgG index?

CSF stands for cerebrospinal fluid. It is a clear, colorless liquid found in
your brain and spinal cord. The brain and spinal cord make up your central
nervous system. Your central nervous system controls and coordinates
everything you do, including muscle movement, organ function, and even complex
thinking and planning.

IgG stands for immunoglobulin G, a type of antibody. Antibodies are proteins
made by the immune system to fight viruses, bacteria, and other foreign
substances. A CSF IgG index measures the levels of IgG in your cerebrospinal
fluid. High levels of IgG can mean you have an autoimmune disorder. An
autoimmune disorder causes your immune system to attack healthy cells,
tissues, and/or organs by mistake. These disorders can cause serious health
problems.

Other names: cerebrospinal fluid IgG level, cerebrospinal fluid IgG
measurement, CSF IgG level, IgG (Immunoglobulin G) spinal fluid, IgG synthesis
rate

## What is it used for?

A CSF IgG index is used to check for diseases of the central nervous system.
It is often used to help diagnose multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a chronic
autoimmune disorder that affects the central nervous system. Many people with
MS have disabling symptoms including severe fatigue, weakness, difficulty
walking, and vision problems. About 80 percent of MS patients have higher than
normal levels of IgG.

## Why do I need a CSF IgG index?

You may need a CSF IgG index if you have symptoms of multiple sclerosis (MS).

Symptoms of MS include:

    * Blurred or double vision
    * Tingling in the arms, legs, or face
    * Muscle spasms
    * Weak muscles
    * Dizziness
    * Bladder control problems
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Double vision
    * Changes in behavior
    * Confusion

## What happens during a CSF IgG index?

Your cerebrospinal fluid will be collected through a procedure called a spinal
tap, also known as a lumbar puncture. A spinal tap is usually done in a
hospital. During the procedure:

    * You will lie on your side or sit on an exam table.
    * A health care provider will clean your back and inject an anesthetic into your skin, so you won't feel pain during the procedure. Your provider may put a numbing cream on your back before this injection.
    * Once the area on your back is completely numb, your provider will insert a thin, hollow needle between two vertebrae in your lower spine. Vertebrae are the small backbones that make up your spine.
    * Your provider will withdraw a small amount of cerebrospinal fluid for testing. This will take about five minutes.
    * You'll need to stay very still while the fluid is being withdrawn.
    * Your provider may ask you to lie on your back for an hour or two after the procedure. This may prevent you from getting a headache afterward.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a CSF IgG index, but you may be
asked to empty your bladder and bowels before the test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a spinal tap. You may feel a little pinch
or pressure when the needle is inserted. After the test, you may get a
headache, called a post-lumbar headache. About one in 10 people will get a
post-lumbar headache. This can last for several hours or up to a week or more.
If you have a headache that lasts longer than several hours, talk to your
health care provider. He or she may be able to provide treatment to relieve
the pain.

You may feel some pain or tenderness in your back at the site where the needle
was inserted. You may also have some bleeding at the site.

## What do the results mean?

If your CSF IgG index shows higher than normal levels, it may indicate:

    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Another autoimmune disease, such as lupus or rheumatoid arthritis
    * Chronic infection such as HIV or hepatitis
    * Multiple myeloma, a cancer that affects white blood cells

If your IgG index shows lower than normal levels, it may indicate:

    * A disorder that weakens the immune system. These disorders make it hard to fight infections.

If your IgG index results are not normal, it may not mean you have a medical
condition needing treatment. Results can vary depending on a variety of
factors including your age and overall health, and medicines you are taking.
If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a CSF IgG index?

The CSF IgG index is often used to help diagnose multiple sclerosis (MS), but
it is not specifically an MS test. There is no single test that can tell you
whether you have MS. If your health care provider thinks you have MS, you will
probably have several other tests to confirm or rule out a diagnosis.

While there is no cure for MS, there are many treatments available that can
help relieve symptoms and slow the progression of the disease.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; c2018. Cerebrospinal fluid IgG measurement, quantitative [updated 2016 Mar 29; cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.allinahealth.org/CCS/doc/Thomson%20Consumer%20Lab%20Database/49/150438.htm
    2. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Glossary: Allergy and Asthma [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/allergy_and_asthma/glossary__allergy_and_asthma_85,p00018#I
    3. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Lumbar Puncture (LP) [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/test_procedures/neurological/lumbar_puncture_lp_92,p07666
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Autoimmune Diseases [updated 2017 Oct 10; cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/autoimmune-diseases
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis [updated 2018 Jan 13; cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/cerebrospinal-fluid-csf-analysis
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Multiple Sclerosis [updated 2017 Oct 10; cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/multiple-sclerosis
    7. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: SFIN: Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) IgG Index [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/8009
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Tests for Brain, Spinal Cord, and Nerve Disorders [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/diagnosis-of-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/tests-for-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: multiple myeloma [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=45793
    10. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Multiple Sclerosis: Hope Through Research [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Hope-Through-Research/Multiple-Sclerosis-Hope-Through-Research#3215_4
    11. National Multiple Sclerosis Society [Internet]. National Multiple Sclerosis Society; Diagnosing MS [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nationalmssociety.org/Symptoms-Diagnosis/Diagnosing-MS
    12. National Multiple Sclerosis Society [Internet]. National Multiple Sclerosis Society; MS Symptoms [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nationalmssociety.org/Symptoms-Diagnosis/MS-Symptoms
    13. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Multiple Sclerosis; 2018 Jan 9 [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/multiple-sclerosis
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Quantitative Immunoglobulins [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=quantitative_immunoglobulins
    15. UW Health: American Family Children's Hospital [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Kids Health: Spinal Tap [cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealthkids.org/kidshealth/en/parents/lumbar-puncture.html/
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Immunoglobulins: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/immunoglobulins/hw41342.html
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Immunoglobulins: Results [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/immunoglobulins/hw41342.html#hw41354

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Multiple Sclerosis
    * Neurologic Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 27 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

