Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/appendicitis-tests/    
                                Description: Appendicitis tests help diagnose appendicitis, an inflammation of the appendix. The appendix is a small pouch in the abdomen. It has no known function, but appendicitis can cause serious health problems if not treated. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Appendicitis Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/appendicitis-tests/

# Appendicitis Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are appendicitis tests?

Appendicitis is an inflammation or infection of the appendix. The appendix is
a small pouch attached to the large intestine. It's located in the lower right
side of your abdomen. The appendix has no known function, but appendicitis can
cause serious health problems if not treated.

Appendicitis happens when there is some kind of blockage in the appendix. A
blockage can be caused by stool, a parasite, or other foreign substance. When
the appendix is blocked, bacteria build up inside it, leading to pain,
swelling, and infection. If not treated promptly, the appendix can burst,
spreading infection throughout your body. A burst appendix is a serious,
sometimes life-threatening condition.

Appendicitis is very common, mostly affecting teens and adults in their early
twenties, but it can happen at any age. Appendicitis tests help diagnose the
condition, so it can be treated before the appendix bursts. The main treatment
for appendicitis is surgical removal of the appendix.

## What are they used for?

The tests are used for people with appendicitis symptoms. They can help
diagnose appendicitis before it causes serious complications.

## Why do I need appendicitis testing?

You may need testing if you have symptoms of appendicitis. The most common
symptom is pain in the abdomen. The pain often starts by your belly button and
shifts to your lower right abdomen. Other appendicitis symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain that gets worse when you cough or sneeze
    * Abdominal pain that gets worse after a few hours
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Diarrhea or constipation
    * Fever
    * Loss of appetite
    * Abdominal bloating

## What happens during appendicitis testing?

Appendicitis tests usually include a physical exam of your abdomen and one or
more of the following:

    *  **Blood test** to check for signs of infection. A high white blood cell count is a sign of an infection, including, but not limited to, appendicitis.
    *  **Urine test** to rule out a urinary tract infection.
    *  **Imaging tests** , such as an abdominal ultrasound or CT scan, to view the inside of your abdomen. Imaging tests are often used to help confirm a diagnosis, if a physical exam and/or blood test show possible appendicitis.

 **During a blood test,** a health care professional will take a blood sample
from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

 **For a urine test,Â** you will need to provide a sample of your urine. The
test may include the following steps:

    * Wash your hands.
    * Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    * Start to urinate into the toilet.
    * Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    * Collect at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amounts.
    * Finish urinating into the toilet.
    * Return the sample container as instructed by your health care provider.

 **An abdominal ultrasound** uses sound waves to view the inside of your
abdomen. During the procedure:

    * You will lie on an exam table.
    * A special gel will be placed on your skin over the abdomen.
    * A handheld probe called a transducer will be moved over the abdomen.

 **A CT scan** uses a computer that's linked to an x-ray machine to create a
series of pictures of the inside of your body. Before the scan, you may need
to take in a substance called contrast dye. Contrast dye helps the images show
up better in the x-ray. You may get contrast dye through an intravenous line
or by drinking it.

During the scan:

    * You will lie on a table that slides into the CT scanner.
    * The scanner's beam will rotate around you as it takes pictures.
    * The scanner will take pictures at different angles to create three-dimensional images of your appendix.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the tests?

You don't need any special preparations for a blood or urine test.

For an abdominal ultrasound or CT scan, you may be asked to not eat or drink
for several hours before the procedure. If you have questions about how to
prepare for your test, talk to your health care provider.

## Are there any risks to the tests?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

There is no risk to having a urine test.

An ultrasound may feel a bit uncomfortable, but there is no risk.

If you've taken contrast dye for a CT scan, it may taste chalky or metallic.
If you got it through an IV, you may feel a slight burning sensation. The dye
is safe in most cases, but some people may have an allergic reaction to it.

## What do the results mean?

If your urine test is positive, it may mean you have a urinary tract infection
instead of appendicitis.

If you have appendicitis symptoms and your blood test shows a high white cell
count, your provider may order an abdominal ultrasound and/or a CT scan to
help confirm a diagnosis.

If appendicitis is confirmed, you will have surgery to remove the appendix.
You may get this surgery, called an appendectomy, as soon as you are
diagnosed.

Most people recover very quickly if the appendix is removed before it bursts.
If surgery is done after the appendix bursts, recovery may take longer and you
may have to spend more time in the hospital. After surgery, you will take
antibiotics to help prevent infection. You may need to take the antibiotics
for a longer time if your appendix burst before surgery.

You can live a completely normal life without an appendix.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about appendicitis testing?

Sometimes the tests misdiagnose appendicitis. During surgery, the surgeon may
find that your appendix is normal. He or she may remove it anyway to prevent
appendicitis in the future. Your surgeon may continue to look in the abdomen
to find the cause of your symptoms. He or she may even be able to treat the
problem at the same time. But you may need more tests and procedures before a
diagnosis can be made.

## References

    1. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2018. Appendicitis: Diagnosis and Tests [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/8095-appendicitis/diagnosis-and-tests
    2. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2018. Appendicitis: Overview [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/8095-appendicitis
    3. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. Infections: Appendicitis [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/appendicitis.html?ref
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Urinalysis [updated 2018 Nov 21; cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/urinalysis
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Appendicitis: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Jul 6 [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/appendicitis/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20369549
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Appendicitis: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Jul 6 [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/appendicitis/symptoms-causes/syc-20369543
    7. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Appendicitis [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/digestive-disorders/gastrointestinal-emergencies/appendicitis
    8. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2018. Appendicitis: Topic Overview [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/health-library/hw64452
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: CT scans [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/ct-scan
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    11. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Definition and Facts for Appendicitis; 2014 Nov [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/appendicitis/definition-facts
    12. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Symptoms and Causes of Appendicitis; 2014 Nov [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/appendicitis/symptoms-causes
    13. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Treatment for Appendicitis; 2014 Nov [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/appendicitis/treatment
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Abdominal CT scan: Overview [updated 2018 Dec 5; cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/abdominal-ct-scan
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Abdominal ultrasound: Overview [updated 2018 Dec 5; cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/abdominal-ultrasound
    16. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Appendicitis: Overview [updated 2018 Dec 5; cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/appendicitis
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Appendicitis [cited 2018 Dec 5]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P00358

## Related Health Topics

    * Abdominal Pain
    * Anesthesia
    * Antibiotics
    * Appendicitis
    * Bacterial Infections
    * CT Scans
    * Infectious Diseases
    * Surgery
    * Ultrasound
    * X-Rays

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Laparoscopy

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

