Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/measles-and-mumps-tests/    
                                Description: Measles testing and mumps testing can help you find out if you have an active infection. The tests may help prevent the spread of disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Measles and Mumps Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/measles-and-mumps-tests/

# Measles and Mumps Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are measles and mumps tests?

Measles and mumps are infections caused by similar viruses. They are both very
contagious, meaning they easily spread from person to person. Measles and
mumps mostly affect children.

    * **Measles** can make you feel like you have a bad cold or the flu. It will also cause a flat, red rash. This rash usually starts on your face and spreads all over your body.
    * **Mumps** can also make you feel like you have the flu. It causes painful swelling of the salivary glands. These glands are located in your cheek and jaw area.

Most people with measles or mumps infections will get better in about two
weeks or less. But sometimes these infections can cause serious complications,
including meningitis (swelling of the brain and spinal cord) and encephalitis
(a type of infection in the brain). Measles and mumps testing can help your
health care provider find out if you or your child has been infected with one
of the viruses. It may also help prevent the spread of these diseases in your
community.

Other names: measles immunity test, mumps immunity test, measles blood test,
mumps blood test, measles viral culture, measles viral culture

## What are the tests used for?

Measles testing and mumps testing can be used to:

    * Find out whether you have an active infection of measles or mumps. An active infection means you have symptoms of the illness.
    * Find out whether you are immune to measles or mumps because you've been vaccinated or have had either virus before.
    * Help public health officials track and monitor outbreaks of measles or mumps.

## Why do I need a measles or mumps test?

Your health care provider may order tests if you or your child has symptoms of
measles or mumps.

Symptoms of measles include:

    * Rash that starts on the face and spreads to the chest and legs
    * High fever
    * Cough
    * Runny nose
    * Sore throat
    * Itchy, red eyes
    * Tiny white spots in the mouth

Symptoms of mumps include:

    * Swollen, painful jaw
    * Puffy cheeks
    * Headache
    * Earache
    * Fever
    * Muscle aches
    * Loss of appetite
    * Painful swallowing

## What happens during measles and mumps tests?

    * **A blood test.** During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.
    * **Swab test.** Your health care provider will use a special swab to take a sample from your nose or throat.
    * **Nasal aspirate.** Your health care provider will inject a saline solution into your nose, then remove the sample with gentle suction.
    * **Spinal tap,** if meningitis or encephalitis is suspected. For a spinal tap, your health care provider will insert a thin, hollow needle into your spine and withdraw a small amount of fluid for testing.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for these tests?

You don't need any special preparations for measles testing or mumps testing.

## Are there any risks to these tests?

There is very little risk to measles or mumps testing.

    * For a blood test, you may have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.
    * For a swab test, you may feel a gagging sensation or even a tickle when your throat or nose is swabbed.
    * The nasal aspirate may feel uncomfortable. These effects are temporary.
    * For a spinal tap, you may feel a little pinch or pressure when the needle is inserted. Some people may get a headache after the procedure.

## What do the results mean?

If your test results are negative, it likely means you do not have and have
never been exposed to measles or mumps. If your test results are positive, it
can mean one of the following:

    * A measles diagnosis
    * A mumps diagnosis
    * You have been vaccinated for the measles and/or mumps
    * You have had a previous infection of measles and/or mumps

If you (or your child) tests positive for measles and/or mumps and have
symptoms of illness, you should stay at home for several days to recover. This
will also help make sure you don't spread the disease. Your health care
provider will let you know how long you will be contagious and when it will be
okay to return to your regular activities.

If you've been vaccinated or have had a previous infection, your results will
show that you have been exposed to the measles virus and/or mumps virus at one
time in your life. But you will not be sick or have any symptoms. It also
means you should be protected from getting sick in the future. Vaccination is
the best protection against measles and mumps and their complications.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that children
get two doses of the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine; one in
infancy, the other before starting school. Talk to your child's pediatrician
for more information. If you are an adult, and don't know if you have been
vaccinated or were ever sick with the viruses, talk to your health care
provider. Measles and mumps tend to make adults sicker than children.

If you have questions about your test results or your vaccination status, talk
to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about measles and mumps tests?

Instead of separate measles and mumps tests, your health care provider may
order a combination blood test called an MMR antibody screening. MMR stands
for measles, mumps, and rubella. Rubella, also known as German measles, is
another type of viral infection.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Complications of Measles [updated 2017 Mar 3; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/measles/about/complications.html
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Measles (Rubeola): Signs and Symptoms [updated 2017 Feb 15; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/measles/about/signs-symptoms.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Mumps: Signs and Symptoms of Mumps [updated 2016 Jul 27; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/mumps/about/signs-symptoms.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Routine Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccine [updated 2016 Nov 22; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/mmr/hcp/recommendations.html
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Measles and Mumps: The Test [updated 2015 Oct 30; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/measles/tab/test
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Measles and Mumps: The Test Sample [updated 2015 Oct 30; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/measles/tab/sample
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Lumbar puncture (spinal tap): Risks; 2014 Dec 6 [cited Nov 9]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/lumbar-puncture/basics/risks/prc-20012679
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Measles (Rubeola; 9-day Measles) [cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/viral-infections-in-infants-and-children/measles
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Mumps (Epidemic Parotitis) [cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/viral-infections-in-infants-and-children/mumps
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Tests for Brain, Spinal Cord, and Nerve Disorders [cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/diagnosis-of-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/tests-for-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    13. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2017. Measles: Overview [updated 2017 Nov 9; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/measles
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2017. Mumps: Overview [updated 2017 Nov 9; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/mumps
    15. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Diagnostic Tests for Neurological Disorders [cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid;=P00811
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Measles, Mumps, Rubella Antibody [cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=mmr_antibody
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR) Vaccine [cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=90&contentid;=P02250
    18. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Rapid Influenza Antigen (Nasal or Throat Swab) [cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=rapid_influenza_antigen
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Health Information: Measles (Rubeola) [updated 2016 Sep 14; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/measles-rubeola/hw198187.html
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Health Information: Mumps [updated 2017 Mar 9; cited 2017 Nov 9]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/mumps/hw180629.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Immunization
    * Measles
    * Mumps
    * Salivary Gland Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 12 March 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

