Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bilirubin-in-urine/    
                                Description: When the liver is damaged, a substance called bilirubin can leak into your urine. A bilirubin in urine test can help detect liver disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Bilirubin in Urine

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bilirubin-in-urine/

# Bilirubin in Urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a bilirubin in urine test?

A bilirubin in urine test measures the levels of bilirubin in your urine.
Bilirubin is a yellowish substance made during the body's normal process of
breaking down red blood cells. Bilirubin is found in bile, a fluid in your
liver that helps you digest food. If your liver is healthy, it will remove
most of the bilirubin from your body. If your liver is damaged, bilirubin can
leak into the blood and urine. Bilirubin in urine may be a sign of liver
disease.

Other names: urine test, urine analysis, UA, chemical urinalysis, direct
bilirubin

## What is it used for?

A bilirubin in urine test is often part of a urinalysis, a test that measures
different cells, chemicals, and other substances in your urine. Urinalysis is
often included as part of a routine exam. This test may also be used to check
for liver problems.

## Why do I need a bilirubin in urine test?

Your health care provider may have ordered a bilirubin in urine test as part
of your regular checkup, or if you have symptoms of liver disease. These
symptoms include:

    * Jaundice, a condition that causes your skin and eyes to turn yellow
    * Dark-colored urine
    * Abdominal pain
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Fatigue

Because bilirubin in urine can indicate liver damage before other symptoms
appear, your health care provider may order a bilirubin in urine test if you
are at a higher risk for liver damage. Risk factors for liver disease include:

    * Family history of liver disease
    * Heavy drinking
    * Exposure or possible exposure to hepatitis virus
    * Obesity
    * Diabetes
    * Taking certain medicines that can cause liver damage

## What happens during a bilirubin in urine test?

Your health care provider will need to collect a sample of your urine. During
your office visit, you will receive a container to collect the urine and
special instructions to make sure that the sample is sterile. These
instructions are often called the "clean catch method." The clean catch method
includes the following steps:

    1. Wash your hands.
    2. Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    3. Start to urinate into the toilet.
    4. Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    5. Collect at least an ounce or two of urine into the container, which should have markings to indicate the amounts.
    6. Finish urinating into the toilet.
    7. Return the sample container to your health care provider.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations to test for bilirubin in urine. If
your health care provider has ordered other urine or blood tests, you may need
to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care
provider will let you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a urinalysis or a bilirubin in urine test.

## What do the results mean?

If bilirubin is found in your urine, it may indicate:

    * A liver disease such as hepatitis
    * A blockage in the structures that carry bile from your liver
    * A problem with liver function

A bilirubin in urine test is only one measure of liver function. If your
results are abnormal, your health care provider may order additional blood and
urine tests, including a liver panel. A liver panel is a series of blood tests
that measure various enzymes, proteins, and substances in the liver. It is
often used to detect liver disease.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## References

    1. American Liver Foundation [Internet]. New York: American Liver Foundation; c2017. Liver Function Tests [updated 2016 Jan 25; cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.liverfoundation.org/for-patients/about-the-liver/the-progression-of-liver-disease/diagnosing-liver-disease/
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Bilirubin (Urine); 86â87 p.
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Liver Panel: The Test [updated 2016 Mar 10; cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/liver-panel/tab/test
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: The Test [updated 2016 May 25; cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/tab/test
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: Three Types of Exams [cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/ui-exams?start=1#bili
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Urinalysis: How you prepare; 2016 Oct 19 [cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/details/how-you-prepare/ppc-20255388
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Urinalysis: What you can expect; 2016 Oct 19 [cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/details/what-you-can-expect/rec-20255393
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Urinalysis [cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/diagnosis-of-kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/urinalysis
    9. Saint Francis Health System [Internet]. Tulsa (OK): Saint Francis Health System; c2016. Patient Information: Collecting a Clean Catch Urine Sample; [cited 2017 Jul 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.saintfrancis.com/lab/Documents/Collecting%20a%20Clean%20Catch%20Urine.pdf
    10. The Johns Hopkins Lupus Center [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; c2017. Urinalysis [cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinslupus.org/lupus-tests/screening-laboratory-tests/urinalysis/
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Direct Bilirubin [cited 2017 Mar 23]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=bilirubin_direct

## Related Health Topics

    * Jaundice
    * Liver Diseases
    * Urinalysis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Liver Function Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

