Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/sonogram/    
                                Description: A sonogram (ultrasound) is an imaging test that uses sound waves to create pictures of structures inside the body. It&#39;s often used during pregnancy to check the health of an unborn baby. It&#39;s also used to diagnose certain medical conditions. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Sonogram

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/sonogram/

# Sonogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a sonogram?

A sonogram, also known as an ultrasound, is an imaging test that uses sound
waves to create pictures of organs, tissues, and other structures inside the
body. Unlike x-rays, sonograms don't use any radiation. A sonogram can also
show parts of the body in motion, such as a heart beating or blood flowing
through blood vessels.

There are two main categories of sonograms: pregnancy sonography and
diagnostic medical sonography.

    *  **Pregnancy sonography** is used to look at an unborn baby. The test can provide information about a baby's growth, development, and overall health.
    *  **Diagnostic medical sonography** is used to view and provide information about other internal parts of the body. These include the heart, blood vessels, liver, bladder, kidneys, and female reproductive organs.

Other names: ultrasound, ultrasonography, pregnancy sonography, fetal
ultrasound, obstetric ultrasound, diagnostic medical sonography, diagnostic
medical ultrasound

## What is it used for?

A sonogram can be used in different ways, depending on the type of sonography
and which part of the body is being checked.

A pregnancy sonography is done to get information about the health of an
unborn baby. It may be used to:

    * Confirm that you are pregnant.
    * Check the size and position of the unborn baby.
    * Check to see you are pregnant with more than one baby.
    * Estimate how long you have been pregnant. This is known as gestational age.
    * Check for signs of Down syndrome, which include thickening in the back of the baby's neck.
    * Check for birth defects in the brain, spinal cord, heart, or other parts of the body.
    * Check the amount of amniotic fluid. Amniotic fluid is a clear liquid that surrounds an unborn baby during pregnancy. It protects the baby from outside injury and cold. It also helps promote lung development and bone growth.

Diagnostic medical sonography may be used to:

    * Find out if blood is flowing at a normal rate and level.
    * See if there is a problem with the structure of your heart.
    * Look for blockages in the gallbladder.
    * Check the thyroid gland for cancer or non-cancerous growths.
    * Check for abnormalities in the abdomen and kidneys.
    * Help guide a biopsy procedure. A biopsy is a procedure that removes a small sample of tissue for testing.

In women, diagnostic medical sonography may be used to:

    * Look at a breast lump to see if it might be cancer. (The test may also be used to check for breast cancer in men, though this type of cancer is far more common in women.)
    * Help find the cause of pelvic pain.
    * Help find the cause of abnormal menstrual bleeding.
    * Help diagnose infertility or monitor infertility treatments.

In men, sonography may be used to help diagnose disorders of the prostate
gland.

## Why do I need a sonogram?

You may need a sonogram if you are pregnant. There is no radiation used in the
test. It offers a safe way of checking the health of your unborn baby.

You may need diagnostic medical sonography if you have symptoms in certain
organs or tissues. These include the heart, kidneys, thyroid, gallbladder, and
female reproductive system. You may also need sonography if you are getting a
biopsy. The sonogram helps your health care provider get a clear image of the
area that is being tested.

## What happens during a sonogram?

A sonogram usually includes the following steps:

    * You will lie on a table, exposing the area that's being viewed.
    * A health care provider will spread a special gel on the skin over that area.
    * The provider will move a wand-like device, called a transducer, over the area.
    * The device sends sound waves into your body. The waves are so high pitched that you can't hear them.
    * The waves are recorded and turned into images on a monitor.
    * You may be able to view the images as they are being made. This often happens during a pregnancy sonogram, allowing you to look at your unborn baby.
    * After the test is over, the provider will wipe the gel off your body.
    * The test takes about 30 to 60 minutes to complete.

In some cases, a pregnancy sonogram may be done by inserting the transducer
into the vagina. This is most often done early in pregnancy.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

The preparations will depend on which type of sonography you are having. For
sonograms of the abdominal area, including pregnancy sonograms and sonograms
of the female reproductive system, you may need to fill up your bladder before
the test. This involves drinking two to three glasses of water about an hour
before the test, and not going to the bathroom. For other sonograms, you may
need to adjust your diet or to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours
before your test. Some types of sonograms require no preparation at all.

Your health care provider will let you know if you need to do anything to
prepare for your sonogram.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There are no known risks to having a sonogram. It is considered safe during
pregnancy.

## What do the results mean?

If your pregnancy sonogram results were normal, it doesn't guarantee you'll
have a healthy baby. No test can do that. But normal results may mean:

    * Your baby is growing at a normal rate.
    * You have the right amount of amniotic fluid.
    * No birth defects were found, though not all birth defects will show up on a sonogram.

If your pregnancy sonogram results were not normal, it may mean:

    * The baby is not growing at a normal rate.
    * You have too much or too little amniotic fluid.
    * The baby is growing outside the uterus. This is called an ectopic pregnancy. A baby can't survive an ectopic pregnancy, and the condition can be life threatening for the mother.
    * There is a problem with the baby's position in the uterus. This could make delivery more difficult.
    * Your baby has a birth defect.

If your pregnancy sonogram results were not normal, it doesn't always mean
your baby has a serious health problem. Your provider may suggest more tests
to help confirm a diagnosis.

If you had diagnostic medical sonography, the meaning of your results will
depend on which part of the body was being looked at.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## References

    1. ACOG: Women's Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2019. Ultrasound Exams; 2017 Jun [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Ultrasound-Exams
    2. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Ultrasound: Sonogram [updated 2017 Nov 3; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/ultrasound
    3. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Your Ultrasound Test: Overview [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/4995-your-ultrasound-test
    4. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Your Ultrasound Test: Procedure Details [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/4995-your-ultrasound-test/procedure-details
    5. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Your Ultrasound Test: Risks/Benefits [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/4995-your-ultrasound-test/risks--benefits
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Fetal Ultrasound: Overview; 2019 Jan 3 [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/fetal-ultrasound/about/pac-20394149
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Male breast cancer: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 May 9 [cited 2019 Feb 5]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/male-breast-cancer/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20374745
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Male breast cancer: Symptoms and causes; 2018 May 9 [cited 2019 Feb 5]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/male-breast-cancer/symptoms-causes/syc-20374740
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Ultrasound: Overview; 2018 Feb 7 [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ultrasound/about/pac-20395177
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Ultrasonography [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/special-subjects/common-imaging-tests/ultrasonography
    11. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: biopsy [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=biopsy
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: sonogram [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/sonogram
    13. National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): Department of Health and Human Services; Ultrasound [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nibib.nih.gov/science-education/science-topics/ultrasound
    14. Radiology Info.org [Internet]. Radiological Society of North America, Inc.; c2019. Obstetric Ultrasound [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.radiologyinfo.org/en/info.cfm?pg=obstetricus
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. Amniotic fluid: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 20; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/amniotic-fluid
    16. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. Ectopic pregnancy: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 20; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/ectopic-pregnancy
    17. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. Ultrasound: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 20; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/ultrasound
    18. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. Ultrasound pregnancy: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 20; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/ultrasound-pregnancy
    19. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Fetal Ultrasound [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=P09031
    20. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Ultrasound [cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/imaging/patients/exams/ultrasound.aspx
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Education and Training Opportunities: About Diagnostic Medical Sonography [updated 2016 Nov 9; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health-careers-education-and-training/about-diagnostic-medical-sonography/42356
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Fetal Ultrasound: How It Is Done [updated 2017 Nov 21; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/fetal-ultrasound/hw4693.html#hw4722
    23. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Fetal Ultrasound: Results [updated 2017 Nov 21; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/fetal-ultrasound/hw4693.html#hw4734
    24. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Fetal Ultrasound: Test Overview [updated 2017 Nov 21; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/fetal-ultrasound/hw4693.html
    25. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Fetal Ultrasound: What To Think About [updated 2017 Nov 21; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/fetal-ultrasound/hw4693.html#hw4740
    26. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Fetal Ultrasound: Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Nov 21; cited 2019 Jan 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/fetal-ultrasound/hw4693.html#hw4707

## Related Health Topics

    * Birth Defects
    * Down Syndrome
    * Ectopic Pregnancy
    * Gallbladder Diseases
    * Neural Tube Defects
    * Pregnancy
    * Prenatal Care
    * Prenatal Testing
    * Radiation Exposure
    * Thyroid Diseases
    * Twins, Triplets, Multiple Births
    * Ultrasound
    * X-Rays

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP) Test
    * Down Syndrome Tests
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Karyotype Genetic Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

