Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/calcitonin-test/    
                                Description: This test measures the level of calcitonin in the blood. Calcitonin is a hormone made by the thyroid. High levels can be a sign of thyroid cancer or other thyroid disorders. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Calcitonin Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/calcitonin-test/

# Calcitonin Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a calcitonin test?

This test measures the level of calcitonin in your blood. Calcitonin is a
hormone made by your thyroid, a small, butterfly-shaped gland located near the
throat. Calcitonin helps control how the body uses calcium. Calcitonin is a
type of tumor marker. Tumor markers are substances made by cancer cells or by
normal cells in response to cancer in the body.

If too much calcitonin is found in the blood, it may be a sign of a type of
thyroid cancer called medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). High levels may also be
a sign of other thyroid diseases that can put you at a higher risk for getting
MTC. These include:

    *  **C-cell hyperplasia** , a condition that causes abnormal growth of cells in the thyroid
    *  **Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2** (MEN 2), a rare, inherited disease that causes the growth of tumors in the thyroid and other glands in the endocrine system. The endocrine system is a group of glands that control a variety of important functions, including how your body uses and burns energy (metabolism).

Other names: thyrocalcitonin, CT, human calcitonin, hCT

## What is it used for?

A calcitonin test is most often used to:

    * Help diagnose C-cell hyperplasia and medullary thyroid cancer
    * Find out if treatment for medullary thyroid cancer is working
    * Find out if medullary thyroid cancer has returned after treatment
    * Screen people with a family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2). A family history of this disease can put you at a higher risk for developing medullary thyroid cancer.

## Why do I need a calcitonin test?

You may need this test if you:

    * Are being treated for medullary thyroid cancer. The test can show whether the treatment is working.
    * Have completed treatment to see whether the cancer has come back.
    * Have a family history of MEN 2.

You may also need this test if you have not been diagnosed with cancer, but
have symptoms of thyroid disease. These include:

    * A lump in the front of your neck
    * Swollen lymph nodes in your neck
    * Pain in your throat and/or neck
    * Trouble swallowing
    * Change to your voice, such as hoarseness

## What happens during a calcitonin test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before the test.
Your health care provider will let you know if you need to fast and if there
are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your calcitonin levels were high, it may mean you have C-cell hyperplasia
or medullary thyroid cancer. If you are already being treated for this thyroid
cancer, high levels may mean the treatment is not working or that cancer has
returned after treatment. Other types of cancer, including cancers of the
breast, lung, and pancreas, can also cause high levels of calcitonin.

If your levels were high, you will probably need more tests before your health
care provider can make a diagnosis. These tests may include a thyroid scan
and/or a biopsy. A thyroid scan is an imaging test that uses sound waves to
look at the thyroid gland. A biopsy is a procedure where a health care
provider removes a small piece of tissue or cells for testing.

If your calcitonin levels were low, it may mean your cancer treatment is
working, or you are cancer free after treatment.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a calcitonin test?

If you are or have been treated for medullary thyroid cancer, you will
probably be tested regularly to see if treatment was successful.

You may also get regular calcitonin tests if you have a family history of
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2. Testing can help find C-cell hyperplasia
or medullary thyroid cancer as early as possible. When cancer is found early,
it's easier to treat.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Tests for Thyroid Cancer [updated 2016 Apr 15; cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/thyroid-cancer/detection-diagnosis-staging/how-diagnosed.html
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. What Is Thyroid Cancer? [updated 2016 Apr 15; cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/thyroid-cancer/about/what-is-thyroid-cancer.html
    3. American Thyroid Association [Internet]. Falls Church (VA): American Thyroid Association; c2018. Clinical Thyroidology for the Public [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.thyroid.org/patient-thyroid-information/ct-for-patients/vol-3-issue-8/vol-3-issue-8-p-11-12
    4. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2018. The Endocrine System [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/hormones-and-health/the-endocrine-system
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Calcitonin [updated 2017 Dec 4; cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/calcitonin
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Thyroid cancer: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Mar 13 [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/thyroid-cancer/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20354167
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Thyroid cancer: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Mar 13 [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/thyroid-cancer/symptoms-causes/syc-20354161
    8. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: CATN: Calcitonin, Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayocliniclabs.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/9160
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: biopsy [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=biopsy
    10. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: calcitonin [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/calcitonin
    11. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 syndrome [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/multiple-endocrine-neoplasia-type-2-syndrome
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Thyroid Cancer-Patient Version [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/types/thyroid
    13. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tumor Markers [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/diagnosis/tumor-markers-fact-sheet
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    15. National Organization for Rare Disorders [Internet]. Danbury (CT): NORD-National Organization for Rare Disorders; c2018. Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2 [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/multiple-endocrine-neoplasia-type
    16. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Calcitonin blood test: Overview [updated 2018 Dec 19; cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/calcitonin-blood-test
    17. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Thyroid ultrasound: Overview [updated 2018 Dec 19; cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/thyroid-ultrasound
    18. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Calcitonin [cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=calcitonin
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Boosting Your Metabolism: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Dec 20]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/boosting-your-metabolism/abn2424.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Biopsy
    * Cancer
    * Endocrine Diseases
    * Thyroid Cancer
    * Thyroid Diseases
    * Thyroid Tests

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Calcium Blood Test
    * CEA Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Thyroxine (T4) Test
    * TSH (Thyroid-stimulating hormone) Test
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

