Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/elastography/    
                                Description: An elastography is an imaging test that checks for fibrosis, a condition that causes scarring in the liver. Left untreated, fibrosis can lead to cirrhosis and liver failure. But early diagnosis and treatment can reduce or even reverse the effects of the condition. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Elastography

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/elastography/

# Elastography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an elastography?

An elastography, also known as liver elastography, is a type of imaging test
that checks the liver for fibrosis. Fibrosis is a condition that reduces blood
flow to and inside the liver. This causes the buildup of scar tissue. Left
untreated, fibrosis can lead to serious problems in the liver. These include
cirrhosis, liver cancer, and liver failure. But early diagnosis and treatment
can reduce or even reverse the effects of fibrosis.

There are two types of liver elastography tests:

    *  **Ultrasound** **Â elastography** , also known as Fibroscan, the brand name of the ultrasound device. The test uses sound waves to measure the stiffness of liver tissue. Stiffness is a sign of fibrosis.
    *  **MRE (magnetic resonance elastography)** , a test that combines ultrasound technology with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI is a procedure that uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create images of organs and structures inside the body. In an MRE test, a computer program creates a visual map that shows liver stiffness.

Elastography testing may be used in place of a liver biopsy, a more invasive
test that involves removing a piece of liver tissue for testing.

Other names: liver elastography, transient elastography, Fibroscan, MR
elastography

## What is it used for?

An elastography is used to diagnose fatty liver disease (FLD) and fibrosis.
FLD is a condition in which normal liver tissue is replaced by fat. This fat
can lead to cell death and fibrosis.

## Why do I need an elastography?

Many people with fibrosis don't have symptoms. But left untreated, fibrosis
will continue to scar the liver and eventually turn into cirrhosis.

Cirrhosis is a term used to describe excessive scarring of the liver.
Cirrhosis is most often caused by alcohol abuse or hepatitis. In severe cases,
cirrhosis can be life threatening. Cirrhosis does cause symptoms. So you may
need this test if you have symptoms of cirrhosis or another liver disease.

Symptoms of cirrhosis and other liver diseases are similar and may include:

    * Yellowing of the skin. This is known as jaundice.
    * Fatigue
    * Itching
    * Bruising easily
    * Heavy nosebleeds
    * Swelling in the legs
    * Weight loss
    * Confusion

## What happens during an elastography?

During an ultrasound (Fibroscan) elastography:

    * You will lie on an examination table on your back, with your right abdominal area exposed.
    * A radiology technician will spread gel on your skin over the area.
    * He or she will place a wand-like device, called a transducer, on the area of skin that covers your liver.
    * The probe will deliver a series of sound waves. The waves will travel to your liver and bounce back. The waves are so high pitched you can't hear them.
    * You may feel a gentle flick as this is done, but it should not hurt.
    * The sound waves are recorded, measured, and displayed on a monitor.
    * The measurement shows the level of stiffness in the liver.
    * The procedure only takes about five minutes, but your entire appointment may take a half hour or so.

MRE (magnetic resonance elastography) is done with the same type of machine
and many of the same steps as a traditional MRI (magnetic resonance imaging)
test. During an MRE procedure:

    * You will lie on a narrow examination table.
    * A radiology technician will place a small pad on your abdomen. The pad will emit vibrations that pass through your liver.
    * The table will slide into an MRI scanner, which is a tunnel-shaped machine that contains the magnet. You may be given earplugs or headphones before the test to help block the noise of the scanner, which is very loud.
    * Once inside the scanner, the pad will activate and send measurements of vibrations from your liver. The measurements will be recorded onto a computer and turned into a visual map that shows the stiffness of your liver.
    * The test takes about 30 to 60 minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an ultrasound elastography. If you
are having an MRE, be sure to remove all metal jewelry and accessories before
the test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There are no known risks to having an ultrasound elastography. There is little
risk to having an MRE for most people. Some people feel nervous or
claustrophobic inside the scanner. If you feel this way, you may be given
medicine before the test to help you relax.

## What do the results mean?

Both types of elastography measure the stiffness of the liver. The stiffer the
liver, the more fibrosis you have. Your results may range from no scarring to
mild, moderate, or advanced liver scarring. Advanced scarring is known as
cirrhosis. Your health care provider may order additional testing, including
liver function blood tests or a liver biopsy, to confirm a diagnosis.

If you are diagnosed with mild to moderate fibrosis, you may be able to take
steps to stop further scarring and sometimes even improve your condition.
These steps include:

    * Not drinking alcohol
    * Not taking illegal drugs
    * Eating a healthy diet
    * Increasing exercise
    * Taking medicine. There are medicines that are effective in treating some types of hepatitis.

If you wait too long for treatment, more and more scar tissue will build up in
your liver. This can lead to cirrhosis. Sometimes, the only treatment for
advanced cirrhosis is a liver transplant.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an elastography?

MRE testing may not be a good choice for people who have metal devices
implanted in their bodies. These include pacemakers, artificial heart valves,
and infusion pumps. The magnet in the MRI can affect the operation of these
devices, and in some cases, it could be dangerous. Dental braces and certain
types of tattoos that contain metal may also cause problems during the
procedure.

The test is also not recommended for women who are pregnant or think they
might be pregnant. It is not known whether magnetic fields are harmful to
unborn babies.

## References

    1. American Liver Foundation. [Internet]. New York: American Liver Foundation; c2017. Diagnosing Hepatitis C [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://liverfoundation.org/for-patients/about-the-liver/diseases-of-the-liver/hepatitis-c/diagnosing-hepatitis-c/#who-should-get-tested-for-hepatitis-c
    2. Foucher J, Chanteloup E, Vergniol J, CastÃ©ra L, Le Bail B, Adhoute X, Bertet J, Couzigou P, de LÃ©dinghen, V. Diagnosis of cirrhosis by transient elastography (FibroScan): a prospective study. Gut [Internet]. 2006 Mar [cited 2019 Jan 24]; 55(3): 403â408. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1856085
    3. Huron Gastro [Internet]. Ypsilanti (MI): Huron Gastroenterology; c2015. Fibroscan (Liver Elastography) [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.hurongastro.com/fibroscan-liver-elastrography
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Hepatitis C: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Mar 6 [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hepatitis-c/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20354284
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Hepatitis C: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Mar 6 [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/hepatitis-c/symptoms-causes/syc-20354278
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Magnetic resonance elastography: Overview; 2018 May 17 [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/magnetic-resonance-elastography/about/pac-20385177
    7. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center [Internet]. New York: Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; c2019. Understanding Your Fibroscan Results [updated 2018 Feb 27; cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mskcc.org/cancer-care/patient-education/understanding-your-fibroscan-results
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Cirrhosis of the Liver [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/liver-and-gallbladder-disorders/fibrosis-and-cirrhosis-of-the-liver/cirrhosis-of-the-liver
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Fibrosis of the Liver [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/liver-and-gallbladder-disorders/fibrosis-and-cirrhosis-of-the-liver/fibrosis-of-the-liver
    10. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2019. Liver Elastography [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/conditions-treatments/digestive-and-liver-health/liver-elastography
    11. NorthShore University Health System [Internet]. NorthShore University Health System; c2019. Liver Fibroscan [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.northshore.org/gastroenterology/procedures/fibroscan
    12. Radiology Info.org [Internet]. Radiological Society of North America, Inc.; c2019. Cirrhosis of the Liver [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.radiologyinfo.org/en/info.cfm?pg=cirrhosisliver
    13. Radiology Info.org [Internet]. Radiological Society of North America, Inc.; c2019. Fatty Liver Disease and Liver Fibrosis [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.radiologyinfo.org/en/info.cfm?pg=fatty-liver-disease
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Chronic Liver Disease/Cirrhosis [cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=85&ContentID=P00662
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. MRI: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 24; cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/mri
    16. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2019. Ultrasound: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 24; cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/ultrasound
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Cirrhosis: Symptoms [updated 2018 Mar 28; cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/mini/cirrhosis/aa67653.html#aa67668
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI): How It Is Done [updated 2018 Jun 26; cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/magnetic-resonance-imaging-mri/hw214278.html#hw214314
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI): How To Prepare [updated 2018 Jun 26; cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/magnetic-resonance-imaging-mri/hw214278.html#hw214310
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI): Test Overview [updated 2018 Jun 26; cited 2019 Jan 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/magnetic-resonance-imaging-mri/hw214278.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Cirrhosis
    * Fatty Liver Disease
    * Hepatitis
    * Jaundice
    * Liver Cancer
    * Liver Transplantation
    * MRI Scans
    * Ultrasound

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Albumin Blood Test
    * Alkaline Phosphatase
    * ALT Blood Test
    * AST Test
    * Bilirubin Blood Test
    * Hepatitis Panel
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

