Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mthfr-mutation-test/    
                                Description: This test looks for mutations in the MTHFR gene. The MTHFR gene helps breaks down an amino acid called homocysteine. If there is a mutation, homocysteine can build up in the body and cause a variety of health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

MTHFR Mutation Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mthfr-mutation-test/

# MTHFR Mutation Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an MTHFR mutation test?

This test looks for mutations (changes) in a gene called MTHFR. Genes are the
basic units of heredity passed down from your mother and father.

Everyone has two MTHFR genes, one inherited from your mother and one from your
father. Mutations can occur in one or both MTHFR genes. There are different
types of MTHFR mutations. An MTHFR test looks for two of these mutations, also
known as variants. The MTHFR variants are called C677T and A1298C.

The MTHFR gene helps your body break down a substance called homocysteine.
Homocysteine is a type of amino acid, a chemical your body uses to make
proteins. Normally, folic acid and other B vitamins break down homocysteine
and change it into other substances your body needs. There should then be very
little homocysteine left in the bloodstream.

If you have an MTHFR mutation, your MTHFR gene may not work right. This may
cause too much homocysteine to build up in the blood, leading to various
health problems, including:

    * Homocystinuria, a disorder that affects the eyes, joints, and cognitive abilities. It usually starts in early childhood.
    * An increased risk of heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, and blood clots

In addition, women with MTHFR mutations have a higher risk of having a baby
with one of the following birth defects:

    * Spina bifida, known as a neural tube defect. This is a condition in which the bones of the spine do not completely close around the spinal cord.
    * Anencephaly, another type of neural tube defect. In this disorder, parts of the brain and/or skull may be missing or deformed.

You can reduce your homocysteine levels by taking folic acid or other B
vitamins These can be taken as supplements or added through dietary changes.
If you need to take folic acid or other B vitamins, your health care provider
will recommend which option is best for you.

Other names: plasma total homocysteine, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase
DNA mutation analysis

## What is it used for?

This test is used to find out if you have one of two MTHFR mutations: C677T
and A1298C. It is often used after other tests show you have higher than
normal homocysteine levels in the blood. Conditions such as high cholesterol,
thyroid disease, and dietary deficiencies can also raise homocysteine levels.
An MTHFR test will confirm whether the raised levels are caused by a genetic
mutation.

Even though an MTHFR mutation brings a higher risk of birth defects, the test
is not usually recommended for pregnant women. Taking folic acid supplements
during pregnancy can greatly reduce the risk of neural tube birth defects. So
most pregnant women are encouraged to take folic acid, whether or not they
have an MTHFR mutation.

## Why do I need an MTHFR mutation test?

You may need this test if:

    * You had a blood test that showed higher than normal levels of homocysteine
    * A close relative was diagnosed with an MTHFR mutation
    * You and/or close family members have a history of premature heart disease or blood vessel disorders

Your new baby may also get an MTHFR test as part of routine newborn screening.
A newborn screening is a simple blood test that checks for a variety of
serious diseases.

## What happens during an MTHFR mutation test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

For a newborn screening, a health care professional will clean your baby's
heel with alcohol and poke the heel with a small needle. He or she will
collect a few drops of blood and put a bandage on the site.

Testing is most often done when a baby is 1 to 2 days old, usually in the
hospital where he or she was born. If your baby wasn't born in the hospital or
if you have left the hospital before the baby could be tested, talk to your
health care provider about scheduling testing as soon as possible.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an MTHFR mutation test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to you or your baby with MTHFR testing. You may have
slight pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most
symptoms go away quickly.

Your baby may feel a little pinch when the heel is poked, and a small bruise
may form at the site. This should go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Your results will show whether you are positive or negative for an MTHFR
mutation. If positive, the result will show which of the two mutations you
have, and whether you have one or two copies of the mutated gene. If your
results were negative, but you have high homocysteine levels, your health care
provider may order more tests to find out the cause.

Regardless of the reason for high homocysteine levels, your health care
provider may recommend taking folic acid and/or other vitamin B supplements,
and/or changing your diet. B vitamins can help bring your homocysteine levels
back to normal.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an MTHFR mutation test?

Some health care providers choose to only test for homocysteine levels, rather
than doing a MTHFR gene test. That is because treatment is often the same,
whether or not high homocysteine levels are caused by a mutation.

## References

    1. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2018. A Genetic Test You Don't Need; 2013 Sep 27 [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://health.clevelandclinic.org/a-genetic-test-you-dont-need
    2. Huemer M, KoÅ¾ich V, Rinaldo P, Baumgartner MR, Merinero B, Pasquini E, Ribes A, Blom HJ. Newborn screening for homocystinurias and methylation disorders: systematic review and proposed guidelines. J Inherit Metab Dis [Internet]. 2015 Nov [cited 2018 Aug 18]; 38(6): 1007â1019. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4626539
    3. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. Newborn Screening Tests; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/newborn-screening-tests.html?ref=search&WT.ac=msh-p-dtop-en-search-clk
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Homocysteine; [updated 2018 Mar 15; cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/homocysteine
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. MTHFR Mutation; [updated 2017 Nov 5; cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/mthfr-mutation
    6. March of Dimes [Internet]. White Plains (NY): March of Dimes; c2018. Newborn Screening Tests For Your Baby; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.marchofdimes.org/baby/newborn-screening-tests-for-your-baby.aspx
    7. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: MTHFR: 5,10-Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase C677T, Mutation, Blood: Clinical and Interpretive; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/81648
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Homocystinuria; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/hereditary-metabolic-disorders/homocystinuria
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    10. National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences: Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center [Internet]. Gaithersburg (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Homocystinuria due to MTHFR deficiency; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/2734/homocystinuria-due-to-mthfr-deficiency
    11. National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences: Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center [Internet]. Gaithersburg (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; MTHFR gene variant; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/10953/mthfr-gene-mutation
    12. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; MTHFR gene; 2018 Aug 14 [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/MTHFR
    13. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is a gene mutation and how do mutations occur?; 2018 Aug 14 [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/mutationsanddisorders/genemutation
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    15. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2017. Test Center: Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (MTHFR), DNA Mutation Analysis; [cited 2018 Aug 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/TestDetail.action?ntc=17911&searchString=MTHFR
    16. Varga EA, Sturm AC, Misita CP, and Moll S. Homocysteine and MTHFR Mutations: Relation to Thrombosis and Coronary Artery Disease. Circulation [Internet]. 2005 May 17 [cited 2018 Aug 18]; 111(19): e289â93. Available from: https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/full/10.1161/01.CI

## Related Health Topics

    * Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders
    * B Vitamins
    * Birth Defects
    * Dietary Supplements
    * Folic Acid
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Genetic Testing
    * Newborn Screening
    * Spina Bifida

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Homocysteine Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

