Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/triglycerides-test/    
                                Description: A triglycerides test measures the amount of triglycerides in your blood. High triglyceride levels may put you at risk for heart disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Triglycerides Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/triglycerides-test/

# Triglycerides Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a triglycerides test?

A triglycerides test measures the amount of triglycerides in your blood.
Triglycerides are a type of fat in your body. If you eat more calories than
you need, the extra calories are changed into triglycerides. These
triglycerides are stored in your fat cells for later use. When your body needs
energy, triglycerides are released into your bloodstream to provide fuel for
your muscles to work. If you eat more calories than you burn off, especially
calories from carbohydrates and fats, you may get high triglyceride levels in
your blood. High triglycerides may put you at greater risk for a heart attack
or stroke.

Other names for a triglycerides test: TG, TRIG, lipid panel, fasting
lipoprotein panel

## What is it used for?

A triglycerides test is usually part of a lipid profile. Lipid is another word
for fat. A lipid profile is a test that measures the level of fats in your
blood, including triglycerides and cholesterol, a waxy, fatty substance found
in every cell of your body. If you have high levels of both LDL (bad)
cholesterol and triglycerides, you may be at an increased risk for a heart
attack or stroke.

Your health care provider may order a lipid profile as part of a routine exam
or to diagnose or monitor heart conditions.

## Why do I need a triglycerides test?

Healthy adults should get a lipid profile, which includes a triglycerides
test, every four to six years. You may need to be tested more often if you
have certain risk factors for heart disease. These include:

    * Family history of heart disease
    * Smoking
    * Being overweight
    * Unhealthy eating habits
    * Lack of exercise
    * Diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * Age. Men 45 years or older and women 50 years or older are at a higher risk for heart disease

## What happens during a triglycerides test?

A triglycerides test is a blood test. During the test, a health care
professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small
needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be
collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the
needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not food or drink) for 9 to 12 hours before your blood
is drawn. Your health care provider will let you know if you need to fast and
if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Triglycerides are usually measured in milligrams (mg) of triglycerides per
deciliter (dL) of blood. For adults, results are usually categorized as:

    *  **Normal/desirable triglyceride range** : less than 150mg/dL
    *  **Borderline high triglyceride range** : 150 to 199 mg/dL
    *  **High triglyceride range** : 200 to 499 mg/dL
    *  **Very high triglyceride range** : 500 mg/dL and above

Higher than normal triglyceride levels may put you at risk for heart disease.
To reduce your levels and lower your risk, your health care provider may
recommend lifestyle changes and/or prescribe medicines.

If your results were borderline high, your provider may recommend that you:

    * Lose weight
    * Eat a healthier diet
    * Get more exercise
    * Reduce alcohol intake
    * Take a cholesterol lowering medicine

If your results were high or very high, your provider may recommend the same
lifestyle changes as above and also that you:

    * Follow a very low-fat diet
    * Lose a significant amount of weight
    * Take medicine or medicines designed to lower triglycerides

Be sure to talk to your health care provider before making any major changes
to your diet or exercise routine.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## References

    1. American Heart Association [Internet]. Dallas (TX): American Heart Association Inc.; c2017. (HDL) Good, (LDL) Bad Cholesterol and Triglycerides [updated 2017 May 1; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/Conditions/Cholesterol/HDLLDLTriglycerides/HDL-Good-LDL-Bad-Cholesterol-and-Triglycerides_UCM_305561_Article.jsp
    2. American Heart Association [Internet]. Dallas (TX): American Heart Association Inc.; c2017. What Your Cholesterol Levels Mean [updated 2017 Apr 25; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/Conditions/Cholesterol/AboutCholesterol/What-Your-Cholesterol-Levels-Mean_UCM_305562_Article.jsp
    3. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Triglycerides; 491â2 p.
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Lipid Profile: The Test Sample [updated 2015 Jun 29; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/lipid/tab/sample
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Triglycerides: The Test [updated 2016 Jun 30; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/triglycerides/tab/test
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Triglycerides: The Test Sample [updated 2016 Jun 30; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/triglycerides/tab/sample
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Cholesterol Test: Why it's done; 2016 Jan 12 [cited 2017 May 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/cholesterol-test/details/why-its-done/icc-20169529
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Triglycerides: Why do they matter?; 2015 Apr 15 [cited 2017 May 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/high-blood-cholesterol/in-depth/triglycerides/art-20048186
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; ATP III Guidelines At-A-Glance Quick Desk Reference; 2001 May [cited 2017 Jul 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/atglance.pdf
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III); 2001 May [cited 2017 Jul 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/guidelines/atp3xsum.pdf
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How is High Blood Cholesterol Diagnosed? [updated 2016 Apr 8; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/hbc/diagnosis
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is Blood Cholesterol? [cited 2017 May 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/hbc
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 May 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    15. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: The Truth About Triglycerides [cited 2017 May 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=56&contentid;=2967
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Triglycerides [cited 2017 May 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=triglycerides

## Related Health Topics

    * Cholesterol
    * Diabetes
    * Dietary Fats
    * Health Risks of an Inactive Lifestyle
    * Heart Diseases
    * High Blood Pressure
    * Quitting Smoking
    * Triglycerides
    * Weight Control

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Cholesterol Levels
    * Fasting for a Blood Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Lipoprotein (a) Blood Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

