Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/shbg-blood-test/    
                                Description: An SHBG blood test is done to find out how much testosterone is available for the body to use. SHBG levels that are too high or too low can be a sign of health problems in men or women. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

SHBG Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/shbg-blood-test/

# SHBG Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an SHBG blood test?

This test measures the levels of SHBG in your blood. SHBG stands for sex
hormone binding globulin. It's a protein made by the liver and attaches itself
to sex hormones found in both men and women. These hormones are:

    * Testosterone, the main sex hormone in men
    * Dihydrotestosterone (DHT), another male sex hormone
    * Estradiol, a form of estrogen, the main sex hormone in women

SHBG controls how much of these hormones are delivered to the body's tissues.
Although SHBG attaches to all three of these hormones, an SHBG test is mostly
used to look at testosterone. SHBG levels can show if there is too much or too
little testosterone being used by the body.

Other names: testosterone-estrogen binding globulin, TeBG

## What is it used for?

An SHBG test is most often used to find out how much testosterone is going to
the body's tissues. Testosterone levels can be measured in a separate test
called total testosterone. This test shows how much testosterone is in the
body, but not how much is being used by the body.

Sometimes a total testosterone test is enough to make a diagnosis. But some
people have symptoms of too much or too little of the hormone that the total
testosterone test results can't explain. In these cases, an SHBG test may be
ordered to provide more information about how much testosterone is available
to the body.

## Why do I need an SHBG blood test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of abnormal testosterone levels,
especially if a total testosterone test can't explain your symptoms. For men,
it's mostly ordered if there are symptoms of low testosterone levels. For
women, it's mostly ordered if there are symptoms of high testosterone levels.

Symptoms of low testosterone levels in men include:

    * Low sex drive
    * Difficulty getting an erection
    * Fertility problems

Symptoms of high testosterone levels in women include:

    * Excess body and facial hair growth
    * Deepening of voice
    * Menstrual irregularities
    * Acne
    * Weight gain
    * Fertility problems

## What happens during an SHBG blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an SHBG test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show your SHBG levels are too low, it may mean the protein is
not attaching itself to enough testosterone. This allows more unattached
testosterone to be available in your system. It may cause too much
testosterone to go to your body's tissues.

If your SHBG levels are too high, it may mean the protein is attaching itself
to too much testosterone. So less of the hormone is available, and your
tissues may be not be getting enough testosterone.

If your SHBG levels are too low, it can be a sign of:

    * Hypothyroidism, a condition in which your body doesn't make enough thyroid hormones
    * Type 2 diabetes
    * Overuse of steroid medications
    * Cushing's syndrome, a condition in which your body makes too much of a hormone called cortisol
    * For men, it can mean cancer of the testicles or adrenal glands. Adrenal glands are located above the kidneys and help control heart rate, blood pressure, and other bodily functions.
    * For women, it can mean polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). PCOS is a common hormone disorder affecting childbearing women. It is one of the leading causes of female infertility.

If your SHBG levels are too high, it can be a sign of:

    * Liver disease
    * Hyperthyroidism, a condition in which your body makes too much thyroid hormone
    * Eating disorders
    * For men, it can mean a problem with the testicles or pituitary gland. The pituitary gland is located beneath the brain and controls many body functions.
    * For women, it can mean problem with the pituitary gland, or Addison disease. Addison disease is a disorder in which the adrenal glands are not able to make enough of certain hormones.

Your health care provider may order additional tests such as total
testosterone or estrogen tests to help make a diagnosis. If you have questions
about your results, talk to your provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an SHBG blood test?

SHBG levels are normally high in children of both sexes, so the test is almost
always used for adults.

## References

    1. Accesa Labs [Internet]. El Segundo (CA): Acessa Labs; c2018. SHBG Test [updated 2018 Aug 1; cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.accesalabs.com/SHBG-Test
    2. ACOG: Women's Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2017. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS); 2017 Jun [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Polycystic-Ovary-Syndrome-PCOS
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Cushing Syndrome [updated 2017 Nov 29; cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/cushing-syndrome
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome [updated 2018 Jun 12; cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/polycystic-ovary-syndrome
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG) [updated 2017 Nov 5; cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/sex-hormone-binding-globulin-shbg
    6. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: SHBG: Sex Hormone-Binding Globulin (SHBG), Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/9285
    7. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: DHT [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/dht
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Graves' Disease; 2017 Sep [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/graves-disease
    10. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Hashimoto's Disease; 2017 Sep [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/hashimotos-disease
    11. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2017. Test Center: Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG) [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/TestDetail.action?ntc=30740
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (Blood) [cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=167&ContentID=shbg_blood
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Testosterone: Results [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/testosterone/hw27307.html#hw27335
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Testosterone: Test Overview [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Aug 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/testosterone/hw27307.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Addison Disease
    * Adrenal Gland Disorders
    * Erectile Dysfunction
    * Female Infertility
    * Hormones
    * Infertility
    * Male Infertility
    * Menstruation
    * Pituitary Disorders
    * Polycystic Ovary Syndrome

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Estrogen Levels Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Testosterone Levels Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

