Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/vitamin-e-tocopherol-test/    
                                Description: A vitamin E test measures the amount of vitamin E in your blood. Too little or too much vitamin E can cause serious health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Vitamin E (Tocopherol) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/vitamin-e-tocopherol-test/

# Vitamin E (Tocopherol) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a vitamin E (tocopherol) test?

A vitamin E test measures the amount of vitamin E in your blood. Vitamin E
(also known as tocopherol or alpha-tocopherol) is a nutrient that is important
for many body processes. It helps your nerves and muscles work well, prevents
blood clots, and boosts the immune system. Vitamin E is a type of antioxidant,
a substance that protects cells from damage.

Most people get the right amount of vitamin E from their diet. Vitamin E is
found naturally in many foods, including green, leafy vegetables, nuts, seeds,
and vegetable oils. If you have too little or too much vitamin E in your body,
it can cause serious health problems.

Other names: tocopherol test, alpha-tocopherol test, vitamin E, serum

## What is it used for?

A vitamin E test may be used to:

    * Find out if you are getting enough vitamin E in your diet
    * Find out if you are absorbing enough vitamin E. Certain disorders cause problems with the way the body digests and uses nutrients, such as vitamin E.
    * Check the vitamin E status of premature babies. Premature babies are at a higher risk of vitamin E deficiency, which can cause serious complications.
    * Find out if you are getting too much vitamin E

## Why do I need a vitamin E test?

You may need a vitamin E test if you have symptoms of vitamin E deficiency
(not getting or absorbing enough vitamin E) or of vitamin E excess (getting
too much vitamin E).

Symptoms of a vitamin E deficiency include:

    * Muscle weakness
    * Slow reflexes
    * Difficulty or unsteady walking
    * Vision problems

Vitamin E deficiency is very rare in healthy people. Most of the time, vitamin
E deficiency is caused by a condition where nutrients are not properly
digested or absorbed. These include Crohn's disease, liver disease, cystic
fibrosis, and some rare genetic disorders. Vtamin E deficiency may also be
caused by a very low-fat diet.

Symptoms of vitamin E excess include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea
    * Fatigue

Vitamin E excess is also rare. It's usually caused by taking too many
vitamins. If not treated, excess vitamin E can lead to serious health
problems, including an increased risk of stroke.

## What happens during a vitamin E test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You will probably need to fast (not eat or drink) for 12â14 hours before the
test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

A low amount of vitamin E means you are not getting or absorbing enough
vitamin E. Your health care provider will probably order more tests to find
out the cause. Vitamin E deficiency can be treated with vitamin supplements.

High vitamin E levels means you are getting too much vitamin E. If you are
using vitamin E supplements, you will need to stop taking them. Your health
care provider may also prescribe other medicines to treat you.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a vitamin E test?

Many people believe vitamin E supplements can help prevent certain disorders.
But there is no solid evidence that vitamin E has any effect on heart disease,
cancer, eye disease, or mental function. To learn more about vitamin
supplements or any dietary supplements, talk to your health care provider.

## References

    1. ClinLab Navigator [Internet]. ClinLab Navigator; c2017. Vitamin E; [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.clinlabnavigator.com/vitamin-e.html
    2. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health [Internet]. Boston: The President and Fellows of Harvard College; c2017. Vitamin E and Health; [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/what-should-you-eat/vitamins/vitamin-e/
    3. Mayo Clinic Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; 1995â2017. Vitamin E, Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/42358
    4. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Vitamin E (Tocopherol); [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/disorders-of-nutrition/vitamins/vitamin-e
    5. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: vitamin E; [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=45023
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2018 Feb 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    7. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2017. Test Center: Vitamin E (Tocopherol) [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/BUOrderInfo.action?tc=931&labCode;=SJC
    8. University of Maryland Medical Center [Internet]. Baltimore: University of Maryland Medical Center; c2017. Vitamin E; [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.umm.edu/health/medical/altmed/supplement/vitamin-e
    9. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Vitamin E; [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=19&contentid;=VitaminE
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. vitamin E; [cited 2017 Dec 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/multum/aquasol-e/d00405a1.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Crohn's Disease
    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Malnutrition
    * Nutrition
    * Peripheral Nerve Disorders
    * Vitamins

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Vitamin D Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 22 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

