Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/down-syndrome-tests/    
                                Description: Down syndrome is an inherited disorder that causes intellectual disabilities and various health problems. Down syndrome screening tests can tell whether an unborn baby has a higher chance of having the disorder. Other Down syndrome tests can confirm or rule out a diagnosis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Down Syndrome Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/down-syndrome-tests/

# Down Syndrome Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are Down syndrome tests?

Down syndrome is a disorder that causes intellectual disabilities, distinctive
physical features, and various health problems. These may include heart
defects, hearing loss, and thyroid disease. Down syndrome is a type of
chromosome disorder.

Chromosomes are the parts of your cells that contain your genes. Genes are
parts of DNA passed down from your mother and father. They carry information
that determines your unique traits, such as height and eye color.

    * People normally have 46 chromosomes, divided into 23 pairs, in each cell.
    * One of each pair of chromosomes comes from your mother, and the other pair comes from your father.
    * In Down syndrome, there is an extra copy of chromosome 21.
    * The extra chromosome changes the way the body and brain develop.

Down syndrome, also called trisomy 21, is the most common chromosome disorder
in the United States.

In two rare forms of Down syndrome, called mosaic trisomy 21 and translocation
trisomy 21, the extra chromosome doesn't show up in every cell. People with
these disorders usually have fewer of the characteristics and health problems
associated with the common form of Down syndrome.

Down syndrome screening tests show whether your unborn baby is more likely to
have Down syndrome. Other types of tests confirm or rule out the diagnosis.

## What are the tests used for?

Down syndrome tests are used to screen for or diagnose Down syndrome. Down
syndrome screening tests have little or no risk to you or your baby, but they
can't tell you for sure whether your baby has Down syndrome.

Diagnostic tests during pregnancy can confirm or rule out a diagnosis, but the
tests have a small risk of causing a miscarriage.

## Why do I need a Down syndrome test?

Many health care providers recommend Down syndrome screening and/or diagnostic
tests for pregnant women who are 35 years of age or older. A mother's age is
the primary risk factor for having a baby with Down syndrome. The risk
increases as a woman gets older. But you may also be at higher risk if you've
already had a baby with Down syndrome and/or have a family history of the
disorder.

In addition, you may want to get tested to help you prepare if the results
show your baby may have Down syndrome. Knowing in advance can give you time to
plan for health care and support services for your child and family.

But testing isn't for everyone. Before you decide to get tested, think about
how you'd feel and what you might do after learning the results. You should
discuss your questions and concerns with your partner and your health care
provider.

If you didn't get tested during pregnancy or want to confirm the results of
other tests, you may want to have your baby tested if he or she has symptoms
of Down syndrome. These include:

    * Flattened face and nose
    * Almond-shaped eyes that slant upward
    * Small ears and mouth
    * Tiny white spots on the eye
    * Poor muscle tone
    * Developmental delays

## What are the different types of Down syndrome tests?

There are two basic types of Down syndrome tests: screening and diagnostic
tests.

 **Down syndrome screening includes the following tests done during
pregnancy:**

    *  **First trimester screening** includes a blood test that checks the levels of certain proteins in the mother's blood. If levels are not normal, it means there is a higher chance of the baby having Down syndrome. The screening also includes an ultrasound, an imaging test that looks at the unborn baby for signs of Down syndrome. The test is done between the 10th and 14th week of pregnancy.
    *  **Second trimester screening.** These are blood tests that also look for certain substances in the mother's blood that may be a sign of Down syndrome. A triple screen test looks for three different substances. It is done between the 16th and 18th week of pregnancy. A quadruple screen test looks for four different substances and is done between the 15th and 20th week of pregnancy. Your provider may order one or both of these tests.

If your Down syndrome screening shows a higher chance of Down syndrome, you
may want to take a diagnostic test to confirm or rule out a diagnosis.

 **Down syndrome diagnostic tests done during pregnancy include:**

    *  **Amniocentesis,** which takes a sample of amniotic fluid, the fluid that surrounds your unborn baby. It is usually done between the 15th and 20th week of pregnancy.
    *  **Chorionic villus sampling (CVS),** which takes a sample from the placenta, the organ that nourishes your unborn baby in your uterus. It's usually done between the 10th and 13th week of pregnancy.
    *  **Percutaneous umbilical blood sampling (PUBS),** which takes a blood sample from the umbilical cord. PUBS gives the most accurate diagnosis of Down syndrome during pregnancy, but it can't be done until late in pregnancy, between the 18th and 22nd week.

 **Down syndrome diagnosis after birth:**

Your baby may get a blood test that looks at his or her chromosomes. This test
will tell you for sure whether your baby has Down syndrome.

## What happens during Down syndrome testing?

 **During a blood test,** a health care professional will take a blood sample
from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

 **For the first trimester ultrasound,** a health care provider will move an
ultrasound device over your abdomen. The device uses sound waves to look at
your unborn baby. Your provider will check for thickness at the back of your
baby's neck, which is a sign of Down syndrome.

 **For amniocentesis:**

    * You'll lie on your back on an exam table.
    * Your provider will move an ultrasound device over your abdomen. Ultrasound uses sound waves to check the position of your uterus, placenta, and baby.
    * Your provider will insert a thin needle into your abdomen and withdraw a small amount of amniotic fluid.

 **For chorionic villus sampling (CVS):**

    * You'll lie on your back on an exam table.
    * Your provider will move an ultrasound device over your abdomen to check the position of your uterus, placenta, and baby.
    * Your provider will collect cells from the placenta in one of two ways: either through your cervix with a thin tube called a catheter, or with a thin needle through your abdomen.

 **For percutaneous umbilical blood sampling (PUBS):**

    * You'll lie on your back on an exam table.
    * Your provider will move an ultrasound device over your abdomen to check the position of your uterus, placenta, baby, and umbilical cord.
    * Your provider will insert a thin needle into the umbilical cord and withdraw a small blood sample.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the tests?

There are no special preparations needed for Down syndrome testing. But you
should talk to your health care provider about the risks and benefits of
testing.

## Are there any risks to the tests?

There is very little risk to having a blood test or ultrasound. After a blood
test, you may have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was
put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

Amniocentesis, CVS, and PUBS tests are usually very safe procedures, but they
do have a slight risk of causing a miscarriage.

## What do the results mean?

Down syndrome screening results can only show if you have a higher risk of
having a baby with Down syndrome, but they can't tell you for sure if your
baby has Down syndrome You may have results that are not normal, but still
deliver a healthy baby with no chromosomal defects or disorders.

If your Down syndrome screening results were not normal, you may choose to
have one or more diagnostic tests.

It can help to speak to a genetic counselor before testing and/or after you
get your results. A genetic counselor is a specially trained professional in
genetics and genetic testing. He or she can help you understand what your
results mean.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about Down syndrome tests?

Raising a child with Down syndrome can be challenging, but also rewarding.
Getting help and treatment from specialists early in life can help your child
reach his or her potential. Many children with Down syndrome grow up to lead
healthy and happy lives.

Talk to your health care provider and genetic counselor about specialized
care, resources, and support groups for people with Down syndrome and their
families.

## References

    1. ACOG: Women's Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2017. Prenatal Genetic Diagnostic Tests; 2016 Sep [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Prenatal-Genetic-Diagnostic-Tests
    2. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Amniocentesis [updated 2016 Sep 2; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/amniocentesis
    3. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Chorionic Villus Sampling: CVS [updated 2016 Sep 2; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/chorionic-villus-sampling
    4. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Cordocentesis: Percutaneous Umbilical Blood Sampling (PUBS) [updated 2016 Sep 2; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/cordocentesis
    5. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Down Syndrome: Trisomy 21 [updated 2015 Jul; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/birth-defects/down-syndrome
    6. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Ultrasound Sonogram [updated 2017 Nov 3; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/ultrasound
    7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Facts about Down Syndrome [updated 2018 Feb 27; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/DownSyndrome.html
    8. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Genetic Counseling [updated 2016 Mar 3; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/genomics/gtesting/genetic_counseling.htm
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Chromosome Analysis (Karyotyping) [updated 2018 Jan 11; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/chromosome-analysis-karyotyping
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Down Syndrome [updated 2018 Jan 19; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/down-syndrome
    11. March of Dimes [Internet]. White Plains (NY): March of Dimes; c2018. Down Syndrome [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.marchofdimes.org/complications/down-syndrome.aspx
    12. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Down Syndrome (Trisomy 21) [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/chromosome-and-gene-abnormalities/down-syndrome-trisomy-21
    13. NIH Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How do health care providers diagnose Down syndrome [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nichd.nih.gov/health/topics/down/conditioninfo/diagnosis
    14. NIH Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What are common symptoms of Down syndrome? [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nichd.nih.gov/health/topics/down/conditioninfo/symptoms
    15. NIH National Human Genome Research Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Chromosome Abnormalities; 2016 Jan 6 [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.genome.gov/11508982
    16. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Down Syndrome; 2018 Jul 17 [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/down-syndrome
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Chromosome Analysis [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=chromosome_analysis
    18. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Down Syndrome (Trisomy 21) in Children [cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=90&contentid=p02356
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Amniocentesis: How It is Done [updated 2017 Jun 6; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/amniocentesis/hw1810.html#hw1839
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Chorionic Villus Sampling (CVS): How It is Done [updated 2017 May 17; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/chorionic-villus-sampling/hw4104.html#hw4121
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Down Syndrome: Exams and Tests [updated 2017 May 4; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/down-syndrome/hw167776.html#hw167989
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Down Syndrome: Topic Overview [updated 2017 May 4; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/down-syndrome/hw167776.html
    23. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: First Trimester Screening for Birth Defects [updated 2017 Nov 21; cited 2018 Jul 21]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/first-trimester-screening-test/abh1912.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Birth Defects
    * Congenital Heart Defects
    * Down Syndrome
    * Genetic Counseling
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Genetic Testing
    * Miscarriage
    * Pregnancy
    * Prenatal Care
    * Prenatal Testing
    * Ultrasound

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Karyotype Genetic Test
    * Pregnancy Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

