Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/autism-spectrum-disorder-asd-screening/    
                                Description: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) screening is the first step in diagnosing ASD. ASD is a disorder of the brain that shows up in early childhood. It affects behavior, communication, and social skills. Early treatment often improves outcomes. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/autism-spectrum-disorder-
asd-screening/

# Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) Screening

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is autism spectrum disorder screening?

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a disorder of the brain that affects a
person's behavior, communication, and social skills. The disorder usually
shows up in the first two years of life. ASD is called a "spectrum" disorder
because there is a wide range of symptoms. Autism symptoms can range from mild
to severe. Some children with ASD may never be able to function without
support from parents and caregivers. Others need less support and may
eventually live independently.

ASD screening is the first step in diagnosing the disorder. While there is no
cure for ASD, early treatment can help reduce autism symptoms and improve
quality of life.

Other names: ASD screening

## What is it used for?

Autism spectrum disorder screening is most often used to check for signs of
autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in children aged 2 and under.

## Why does my child need autism spectrum disorder screening?

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that all children be screened
for ASD at their 18-month and 24-month well-child checkups.

Your child may need screening at an earlier age if he or she has symptoms of
ASD. Autism symptoms may include:

    * Not making eye contact with others
    * Not responding to a parent's smile or other gestures
    * A delay in learning to talk. Some children may repeat words without understanding their meaning.
    * Repeated body movements such as rocking, spinning, or flapping of hands
    * Obsession with specific toys or objects
    * Trouble with change in routine

Older children and adults may also need screening if they have autism symptoms
and were not diagnosed as babies. These symptoms may include:

    * Trouble communicating
    * Feeling overwhelmed in social situations
    * Repeated body movements
    * Extreme interest in specific topics

## What happens during an autism spectrum disorder screening?

There is no special test for ASD. Screening usually includes:

    * **A questionnaire** for parents that asks for information about their child's development and behavior.
    * **Observation.** Your child's provider will look at how your child plays and interacts with others.
    * **Tests** that ask your child to perform tasks that check their thinking skills and ability to make decisions.

Sometimes a physical problem can cause autism-like symptoms. So screening may
also include:

    * **Blood tests** to check for lead poisoning and other disorders
    * **Hearing tests** **.** A hearing problem can cause problems in language skills and social interaction.
    * **Genetic tests**. These tests look for inherited disorders such as Fragile X syndrome. Fragile X causes intellectual disabilities and symptoms similar to ASD. It most often affects boys.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare my child for autism spectrum disorder
screening?

There are no special preparations needed for this screening.

## Are there any risks to screening?

There is no risk to having autism spectrum disorder screening.

## What do the results mean?

If results show signs of ASD, your provider may refer you to specialists for
more testing and/or treatment. These specialists may include a:

    * **Developmental pediatrician.** A doctor who specializes in treating children with special needs.
    * **Neuropsychologist.** A doctor who specializes in understanding the relationship between the brain and behavior.
    * **Child psychologist.** A health care provider who specializes in treating mental health and behavioral, social, and development issues in children.

If your child is diagnosed with ASD, it's important to get treatment as soon
as possible. Early treatment can help make the most of your child's strengths
and abilities. Treatment has been shown to improve behavior, communication,
and social skills.

ASD treatment involves services and support from a variety of providers and
resources. If your child is diagnosed with ASD, talk to his or her provider
about making a treatment strategy.

## Is there anything else I need to know about autism spectrum disorder
screening?

There is no one single cause of autism spectrum disorder. Research suggests
that it is caused by a combination of factors. These may include genetic
disorders, infections, or medicines taken during pregnancy, and an older age
of one or both parents (35 or older for women, 40 or over for men).

Research also clearly shows that there is **no link betweenchildhood vaccines
and autism spectrum disorder**.

If you have questions about ASD risk factors and causes, talk to your child's
health care provider.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD): Screening and Diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder; [cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/autism/screening.html
    2. Durkin MS, Maenner MJ, Newschaffer CJ, Lee LC, Cunniff CM, Daniels JL, Kirby RS, Leavitt L, Miller L, Zahorodny W, Schieve LA. Advanced parental age and the risk of autism spectrum disorder. Am J Epidemiol [Internet]. 2008 Dec 1 [cited 2019 Oct 21]; 168(11):1268-76. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18945690
    3. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Itaska (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2019. Autism Spectrum Disorder: What is Autism Spectrum Disorder; [updated 2018 Apr 26; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/health-issues/conditions/Autism/Pages/Autism-Spectrum-Disorder.aspx
    4. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Itaska (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2019. How is Autism Diagnosed?; [updated 2015 Sep 4; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/health-issues/conditions/Autism/Pages/Diagnosing-Autism.aspx
    5. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Itaska (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2019. How Pediatricians Screen for Autism; [updated 2016 Feb 8; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/health-issues/conditions/Autism/Pages/How-Doctors-Screen-for-Autism.aspx
    6. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Itaska (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2019. What are the Early Signs of Autism?; [updated 2015 Sep 4; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/health-issues/conditions/Autism/Pages/Early-Signs-of-Autism-Spectrum-Disorders.aspx
    7. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2019. Autism Spectrum Disorder; [cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/pervasive-develop-disorders.html
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Autism spectrum disorder: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Jan 6 [cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/autism-spectrum-disorder/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20352934
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Autism spectrum disorder: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Jan 6 [cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/autism-spectrum-disorder/symptoms-causes/syc-20352928
    10. National Institute of Mental Health [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Autism Spectrum Disorder; [updated 2018 Mar; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/autism-spectrum-disorders-asd/index.shtml
    11. Psychologist-License.com [Internet]. Psychologist-License.com; c2013â2019. Child Psychologists: What they do and how to become one; [cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.psychologist-license.com/types-of-psychologists/child-psychologist.html#context/api/listings/prefilter
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Fragile X syndrome: Overview; [updated 2019 Sep 26; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/fragile-x-syndrome
    13. UNC School of Medicine [Internet]. Chapel Hill (NC): University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine; c2018. Neuropsychological Evaluation FAQ; [cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]; Available from: https://www.med.unc.edu/neurology/divisions/movement-disorders/npsycheval
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD): Exams and Tests; [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/mini/autism/hw152184.html#hw152206
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD): Symptoms; [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/mini/autism/hw152184.html#hw152190
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD): Topic Overview; [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/mini/autism/hw152184.html
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD): Treatment Overview; [updated 2018 Sep 11; cited 2019 Sep 26]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/mini/autism/hw152184.html#hw152215

## Related Health Topics

    * Autism Spectrum Disorder
    * Developmental Disabilities
    * Speech and Communication Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Hearing Tests for Children
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

