Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lipase-tests/    
                                Description: A lipase test measures the level of lipase in your blood or urine. It&#39;s used to diagnose pancreatitis and other pancreatic disorders. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Lipase Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lipase-tests/

# Lipase Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a lipase test?

Lipase is a type of protein made by your pancreas, an organ located near your
stomach. Lipase helps your body digest fats. It's normal to have a small
amount of lipase in your blood. But, a high level of lipase can mean you have
pancreatitis, an inflammation of the pancreas, or another type of pancreas
disease. Blood tests are the most common way of measuring lipase.

Other names: serum lipase, lipase, LPS

## What is it used for?

A lipase test may be used to:

    * Diagnose pancreatitis or another disease of the pancreas
    * Find out if there is a blockage in your pancreas
    * Check for chronic diseases that affect the pancreas, including cystic fibrosis

## Why do I need a lipase test?

You may need a lipase test if you have symptoms of a pancreas disease. These
include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Diarrhea
    * Severe back pain
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Fever
    * Loss of appetite

You may also need a lipase test if you certain risk factors for pancreatitis.
These include:

    * A family history of pancreatitis
    * Diabetes
    * Gallstones
    * High triglycerides
    * Obesity

You may also be at a higher risk if you are a smoker or heavy alcohol user.

## What happens during a lipase test?

A lipase test is usually in the form of a blood test. During a blood test, a
health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

Lipase can also be measured in urine. Usually, a lipase urine test can be
taken at any time of day, with no special preparation needed.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) for 8â12 hours before a lipase blood
test. If your health care provider has ordered a lipase urine test, be sure to
ask if you need to follow any special instructions.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

There are no known risks to a urine test.

## What do the results mean?

A high level of lipase may indicate:

    * Pancreatitis
    * A blockage in the pancreas
    * Kidney disease
    * Peptic ulcer
    * A problem with your gall bladder

A low level of lipase may mean there is damage to cells in the pancreas that
make lipase. This happens in certain chronic diseases such as cystic fibrosis.

If your lipase levels are not normal, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a
medical condition needing treatment. Certain medicines, including codeine and
birth control pills, can affect your lipase results. If you have questions
about your lipase test results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a lipase test?

A lipase test is commonly used to diagnose pancreatitis. Pancreatitis can be
acute or chronic. Acute pancreatitis is a short-term condition that usually
goes away after a few days of treatment. Chronic pancreatitis is a long-
lasting condition that gets worse over time. But it can be managed with
medicine and lifestyle changes, such as quitting drinking. Your health care
provider may also recommend surgery to repair the problem in your pancreas.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Lipase, Serum; 358 p.
    2. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Chronic Pancreatitis [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/digestive_disorders/chronic_pancreatitis_22,chronicpancreatitis
    3. Junglee D, Penketh A, Katrak A, Hodson ME, Batten JC, Dandona P. Serum pancreatic lipase activity in cystic fibrosis. Br Med J [Internet]. 1983 May 28 [cited 2017 Dec 16]; 286(6379):1693â4. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1548188/pdf/bmjcred00555-0017.pdf
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Lipase [updated 2018 Jan 15; cited 2018 Feb 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/lipase
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Glossary: Random Urine Sample [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary#r
    6. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2017. Test ID: FLIPR: Lipase, Random Urine: Specimen [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Specimen/90347
    7. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: pancreas [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=46254
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Feb 20]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Definitions & Facts for Pancreatitis; 2017 Nov [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/pancreatitis/definition-facts
    10. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Treatment for Pancreatitis; 2017 Nov [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/pancreatitis/treatment
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Lipase [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=lipase
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Microscopic Urinalysis [cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=urinanalysis_microscopic_exam
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Health Information: Lipase: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/lipase/hw7976.html
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Health Information: Lipase: Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2017 Dec 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/lipase/hw7976.html#hw7984

## Related Health Topics

    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Gallbladder Diseases
    * Pancreatic Diseases
    * Pancreatitis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Amylase Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 22 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

