Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/alpha-fetoprotein-afp-tumor-marker-test/    
                                Description: An AFP (alpha-fetoprotein) tumor marker test measures the level of AFP in your blood. High levels of AFP can be a sign of liver cancer, cancer of the ovaries or testicles, and noncancerous liver disorders. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Alpha Fetoprotein (AFP) Tumor Marker Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/alpha-fetoprotein-afp-
tumor-marker-test/

# Alpha Fetoprotein (AFP) Tumor Marker Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an AFP (alpha-fetoprotein) tumor marker test?

AFP stands for alpha-fetoprotein. It is a protein made in the liver of a
developing baby. AFP levels are usually high when a baby is born, but fall to
very low levels by the age of 1. Healthy adults should have very low levels of
AFP.

An AFP tumor marker test is a blood test that measures the levels of AFP in
adults. Tumor markers are substances made by cancer cells or by normal cells
in response to cancer in the body. High levels of AFP can be a sign of liver
cancer or cancer of the ovaries or testicles, as well as noncancerous liver
diseases such as cirrhosis and hepatitis.

High AFP levels don't always mean cancer, and normal levels don't always rule
out cancer. So an AFP tumor marker test is not usually used by itself to
screen for or diagnose cancer. But it can help diagnose cancer when used with
other tests. The test may also be used to help monitor the effectiveness of
cancer treatment and to see if cancer has returned after you've finished
treatment.

Other names: total AFP, alpha-fetoprotein-L3 Percent

## What is it used for?

An AFP tumor marker test may be used to:

    * Help confirm or rule out a diagnosis of liver cancer or cancer of the ovaries or testicles.
    * Monitor cancer treatment. AFP levels often go up if cancer is spreading and go down when treatment is working.
    * See if cancer has returned after treatment.
    * Monitor the health of people with cirrhosis or hepatitis.

## Why do I need an AFP tumor marker test?

You may need an AFP tumor marker test if a physical exam and/or other tests
show there is a chance you have liver cancer or cancer of the ovaries or
testicles. Your provider may order an AFP test to help confirm or rule out the
results of other tests.

You may also need this test if you are currently being treated for one of
these cancers, or recently completed treatment. The test can help your
provider see if your treatment is working or if your cancer has come back
after treatment.

In addition, you may need this test if you have a noncancerous liver disease.
Certain liver diseases can put you at a higher risk of getting liver cancer.

## What happens during an AFP tumor marker test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an AFP tumor marker test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show high levels of AFP, it may confirm a diagnosis of liver
cancer, or cancer of the ovaries or testicles. Sometimes, high levels of AFP
can be a sign of other cancers, including Hodgkin disease and lymphoma, or
noncancerous liver disorders.

If you are being treated for cancer, you may be tested several times
throughout your treatment. After repeated tests, your results may show:

    *  **Your AFP levels are increasing.** This may mean your cancer is spreading, and/or your treatment is not working.
    *  **Your AFP levels are decreasing.** This may mean your treatment is working.
    *  **Your AFP levels have not increased or decreased.** This may mean your disease is stable.
    *  **Your AFP levels decreased, but then later increased.** This may mean your cancer has come back after you've been treated.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an AFP tumor marker test?

You may have heard of another type of AFP test that is given to some pregnant
women. Although it also measures AFP levels in the blood, this test is not
used in the same way as an AFP tumor marker test. It is used to check for the
risk of certain birth defects and has nothing to do with cancer or liver
disease.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Alpha-1-fetoprotein measurement, serum [updated 2016 Mar 29; cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.allinahealth.org/CCS/doc/Thomson%20Consumer%20Lab%20Database/49/150027.htm
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Can Liver Cancer Be Found Early? [updated 2016 Apr 28; cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/liver-cancer/detection-diagnosis-staging/detection.html
    3. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. Germ Cell Tumor- Childhood: Diagnosis; 2018 Jan [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/germ-cell-tumor-childhood/diagnosis
    4. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Liver Cancer (Hepatocellular Carcinoma) [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/digestive_disorders/liver_cancer_hepatocellular_carcinoma_22,livercancerhepatocellularcarcinoma
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) Tumor Marker [updated 2018 Feb 1; cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/alpha-fetoprotein-afp-tumor-marker
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Cancer blood tests: lab tests used in cancer diagnosis: 2016 Nov 22 [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/cancer/in-depth/cancer-diagnosis/art-20046459
    7. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: AFP: Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP), Tumor Marker, Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/8162
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Diagnosis of Cancer [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/cancer/overview-of-cancer/diagnosis-of-cancer
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tumor Markers [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/diagnosis/tumor-markers-fact-sheet
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    11. Oncolink [Internet]. Philadelphia: Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania; c2018. Patient Guide to Tumor Markers [updated 2018 Mar 5; cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.oncolink.org/cancer-treatment/procedures-diagnostic-tests/blood-tests-tumor-diagnostic-tests/patient-guide-to-tumor-markers
    12. Perkins, GL, Slater ED, Sanders GK, Pritchard JG. Serum Tumor Markers. Am Fam Physician [Internet]. 2003 Sep 15 [cited 2018 Jul 25]; 68(6):1075â82. Available from: https://www.aafp.org/afp/2003/0915/p1075.html
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=90&contentid=P02426
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Alpha-Fetoprotein Tumor Marker (Blood) [cited 2018 Jul 25]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=alpha_fetoprotein_tumor_marker

## Related Health Topics

    * Cancer
    * Cirrhosis
    * Hepatitis
    * Liver Cancer
    * Liver Diseases
    * Ovarian Cancer
    * Testicular Cancer

## Related Lab Test Information

    * CA 19-9 Blood Test (Pancreatic Cancer)
    * CA-125 Blood Test (Ovarian Cancer)
    * Hepatitis Panel
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Lung Cancer Tumor Markers
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

