Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/coronavirus-testing/    
                                Description: Coronaviruses infect the respiratory system. Coronavirus infections are common and are usually not serious. In recent years, some coronaviruses have changed into more dangerous forms. These new viruses are SARS, MERS, and the newly discovered COVID-19. Testing helps prevent the spread of disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Coronavirus Testing

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/coronavirus-testing/

# Coronavirus Testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is coronavirus testing?

Coronavirus testing looks for signs of a coronavirus infection in nasal
secretions, blood, or other body fluids. Coronaviruses are types of viruses
that infect the respiratory system. They are found in both animals and people.
Coronavirus infections in people are common throughout the world. They don't
usually cause serious illness.

Sometimes a coronavirus that infects animals will change and turn into a new
coronavirus that can infect people. These coronaviruses can be more serious
and sometimes lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is a life-threatening condition in
which fluid builds up in the lungs.

Three of these new coronaviruses have been discovered in recent years:

    * **SARS** (severe acute respiratory syndrome), a serious and sometimes fatal respiratory illness. It was first discovered in China in 2002 and spread around the world. An international effort helped quickly contain the spread of disease. There have been no new cases reported anywhere in world since 2004.
    * **MERS** (Middle East respiratory syndrome), a severe respiratory illness discovered in Saudi Arabia in 2012. The illness has spread to 27 countries. Only two cases have been reported in the United States. All cases have been linked to travel or residence in or around the Arabian Peninsula.
    * **COVID-19** (coronavirus disease 2019). It was discovered in late 2019 in Wuhan City, in the Hubei Province of China. Most infections have occurred in China or are related to travel from Hubei Province. There have been some cases reported in United States. The outbreak is being closely monitored by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO).

## How is it used?

Coronavirus testing is used to help diagnose infections and help prevent the
spread of disease.

## Why do I need a coronavirus test?

You may need testing if you have symptoms of infection **and** have recently
traveled to  parts of the world where infection rates are high. You may also
need testing if you have had close contact with someone who has traveled to
one of those areas.

**Symptoms of coronavirus infections include:**

    * Fever
    * Cough
    * Shortness of breath
    * Sore throat
    * Headache

Symptoms of COVID-19 are usually milder than those of SARS and MERS.

**The symptoms of COVID-19 include:**

    * Fever
    * Cough
    * Shortness of breath

If you have symptoms and _have not_ traveled to areas where infection rates
have been high or been exposed to someone who has, it's highly unlikely that
you have one of these new coronaviruses. You may have another type of virus,
such as the flu. The flu is much more common in the United States than the new
coronaviruses.

## What happens during coronavirus testing?

If your provider thinks you may have COVID-19, he or she will contact the CDC
or your local health department for instructions on testing. You may be told
to go to a special lab for your test. Only certain labs have been allowed to
do tests for COVID-19.

There are a few ways that a lab may get a sample for testing.

    * **Swab test.** A health care provider will use a special swab to take a sample from your nose or throat.
    * **Nasal aspirate.** A health care provider will inject a saline solution into your nose, then remove the sample with gentle suction.
    * **Tracheal aspirate.** A health care provider will put a thin, lighted tube called a bronchoscope down your mouth and into your lungs, where a sample will be collected.
    * **Sputum test.** Sputum is a thick mucus that is coughed up from the lungs. You may be asked to cough up sputum into a special cup, or a special swab may be used to take a sample from your nose.
    * **Blood.** A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm.

The FDA has approved more widespread use of a rapid test for COVID-19. The
test, which was developed by the CDC, uses samples from the nose, throat, or
lungs. It enables fast, accurate diagnosis of the virus. The test is now
allowed to be used at any CDC-approved lab across the country.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for this test?

Your health care provider may ask you to wear a facemask to your appointment.
Your provider will let you know if you should take other steps to prevent the
spread of infection.

## Are there any risks to the test?

You may feel a tickle or a gagging sensation when your nose or throat is
swabbed. The nasal aspirate may feel uncomfortable. These effects are
temporary.

There is a minor risk of bleeding or infection from a tracheal aspiration.

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results were positive, it means you probably have a coronavirus
infection. There is no specific treatment for these infections, but your
health care provider may recommend steps to relieve your symptoms. These
include:

    * Drinking plenty of fluids
    * Resting
    * Taking over-the-counter pain relievers

You may need to go to the hospital if your symptoms get worse, which may be a
sign of pneumonia. Symptoms of pneumonia include a worsening cough, increased
trouble breathing, and a high fever.

If you were diagnosed with a coronavirus infection, you should also take the
following steps to prevent others from getting sick:

    * Stay home, except to get medical care.
    * Wear a facemask when you are around other people.
    * Do not share drinking glasses, eating utensils, towels, bedding, or other items with people in your home.
    * Cough or sneeze into your sleeve or a tissue, not your hands.
    * Wash your hands frequently and thoroughly with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.

If your results were negative, you may need further testing and/or an exam by
your provider. Until you get a diagnosis, you will still need to take steps to
prevent spreading the infection.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about coronavirus testing?

You can lower your risk of getting an infection by taking the following steps:

    * Wash your hands frequently and thoroughly with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.
    * Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.
    * When possible, keep away from people who are coughing and sneezing.
    * Clean frequently-touched objects and surfaces with a household disinfectant spray or wipe.

Get the latest information on COVID-19.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019 Novel Coronavirus: 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) Situation Summary; [updated 2020 Feb 7; cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/summary.html
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019 Novel Coronavirus: CDC Tests for 2019-nCoV; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/about/testing.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019 Novel Coronavirus: Interim Clinical Guidance for Management of Patients with Confirmed 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) Infection; [updated 2020 Jan 30; cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/clinical-guidance-management-patients.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019 Novel Coronavirus: Interim Guidelines for Collecting, Handling, and Testing Clinical Specimens from Persons Under Investigation (PUIs) for 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV); 2020 Feb 2 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/lab/guidelines-clinical-specimens.html
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019 Novel Coronavirus: Frequently Asked Questions and Answers; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/faq.html
    6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019 Novel Coronavirus: Prevention and Treatment; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/about/prevention-treatment.html
    7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; 2019 Novel Coronavirus: What to do if you are sick with 2019 Novel Coronavirus; (2019-nCoV); [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/about/steps-when-sick.html
    8. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Coronavirus: Human Coronavirus Types; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/types.html
    9. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS): About MERS; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/about/index.html
    10. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS): MERS in the U.S.; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/us.html
    11. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS): People Who May Be at Increased Risk for MERS; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/risk.html
    12. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS): About SARS; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/sars/about/index.html
    13. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS): Frequently Asked Questions About SARS; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/sars/about/faq.html
    14. FDA: U.S. Food and Drug Administration [Internet]. Silver Spring (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; FDA Takes Significant Step in Coronavirus Response Efforts, Issues Emergency Use Authorization for the First 2019 Novel Coronavirus Diagnostic; 2020 Feb 4 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-takes-significant-step-coronavirus-response-efforts-issues-emergency-use-authorization-first
    15. Familydoctor.org [Internet]. Leawood (KS): American Academy of Family Physicians; c2020. Coronavirus; [updated 2020 Jan 28; cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://familydoctor.org/condition/coronavirus
    16. Illinois Department of Public Health [Internet]. Springfield (IL): Illinois Department of Public Health; c2020. 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV): Frequently Asked Questions; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: http://dph.illinois.gov/topics-services/diseases-and-conditions/diseases-a-z-list/coronavirus/faq
    17. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2020. Coronavirus; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/coronavirus.html
    18. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2020. Influenza Tests; [updated 2020 Jan 9; cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/influenza-tests
    19. Maryland Department of Public Health [Internet]. Baltimore: Maryland.gov; c2020. MDH Coronavirus Physician Letter; 2020 Jan 31 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://phpa.health.maryland.gov/IDEHASharedDocuments/MDH-Coronavirus-Clinician-Letter_1.31.2020.pdf
    20. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2020. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS): Overview; 2019 Sep 24 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/sars/symptoms-causes/syc-20351765
    21. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2020. Novel coronavirus: What is it and how can I protect myself?; 2020 Jan 29 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/infectious-diseases/expert-answers/novel-coronavirus/faq-20478727
    22. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co Inc.; c2020. New Coronavirus Outbreak in Humans; 2020 Jan 24 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/news/editorial/2020/01/24/15/48/new-coronavirus-outbreak-in-humans
    23. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    24. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2020. Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) Overview; [updated 2020 Feb 8; cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/middle-east-respiratory-syndrome-mers
    25. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2020. Health Encyclopedia: Bronchoscopy; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=P07743
    26. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2020. Health Encyclopedia: Pneumonia; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P01321
    27. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2020. Health Encyclopedia: Sputum Culture; [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=sputum_culture
    28. World Health Organization [Internet]. Geneva (SUI): World Health Organization; c2020. Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV); 2019 Mar 11 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/middle-east-respiratory-syndrome-coronavirus-(mers-cov)
    29. World Health Organization [Internet]. Geneva (SUI): World Health Organization; c2020. Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) Situation Report â 20; 2020 Feb 9 [cited 2020 Feb 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200209-sitrep-20-ncov.pdf?sfvrsn=6f80d1b9_4
    30. World Health Organization [Internet]. Geneva (SUI): World Health Organization; c2020. Q and A on Coronaviruses; 2020 Feb 2 [cited 2020 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.who.int/news-room/q-a-detail/q-a-coronaviruses

## Related Health Topics

    * Coronavirus Infections
    * Germs and Hygiene
    * Pneumonia
    * Viral Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Flu (Influenza) Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

