Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/hiv-screening-test/    
                                Description: An HIV test is used to diagnose HIV. While there is no cure for HIV, there are more and better treatments available now than in the past. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

HIV Screening Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/hiv-screening-test/

# HIV Screening Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an HIV test?

An HIV test shows whether you are infected with HIV (human immunodeficiency
virus). HIV is a virus that attacks and destroys cells in the immune system.
These cells protect your body against disease-causing germs, such as bacteria
and viruses. If you lose too many immune cells, your body will have trouble
fighting off infections and other diseases.

There are three main types of HIV tests:

    *  **Antibody Test.** This test looks for HIV antibodies in your blood or saliva. Your immune system makes antibodies when you are exposed to bacteria or viruses, like HIV. An HIV antibody test can determine if you have HIV from 3â12 weeks after infection. That's because it can take a few weeks or longer for your immune system to make antibodies to HIV. You may be able to do an HIV antibody test in the privacy of your home. Ask your health care provider about at-home HIV test kits.
    *  **HIV Antibody/Antigen Test.** This test looks for HIV antibodies _and_ antigens in the blood. An antigen is a part of a virus that triggers an immune response. If you've been exposed to HIV, antigens will show up in your blood before HIV antibodies are made. This test can usually find HIV within 2â6 weeks of infection. The HIV antibody/antigen test is one of the most common types of HIV tests.
    * HIV Viral Load **.** This test measures the amount of the HIV virus in the blood. It can find HIV faster than antibody and antibody/antigen tests, but it is very expensive. It is mostly used for monitoring HIV infections.

Other names: HIV antibody/antigen tests, HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibody and antigen
evaluation, HIV test, human immunodeficiency virus antibody test, type 1, HIV
p24 antigen test

## What is it used for?

An HIV test is used to find out if you have been infected with HIV. HIV is the
virus that causes AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). **Most people
with HIV don't have AIDS**. People with AIDS have an extremely low number of
immune cells and are at risk for life-threatening illnesses, including
dangerous infections, a severe type of pneumonia, and certain cancers,
including Kaposi sarcoma.

If HIV is found early, you can get medicines to protect your immune system.
HIV medicines may prevent you from getting AIDS.

## Why do I need an HIV test?

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that everyone
between the ages of 13 and 64 get tested for HIV at least once as part of
routine health care. You may also need an HIV test if you are at higher risk
for infection. HIV is mainly spread through sexual contact and blood, so you
may be at a higher risk for HIV if you:

    * Are a man that has had sex with another man
    * Have had sex with an HIV-infected partner
    * Have had multiple sex partners
    * Have injected drugs, such as heroin, or shared drug needles with someone else

HIV can spread from mother to child during birth and through breast milk, so
if you are pregnant your doctor may order an HIV test. There are medicines you
can take during pregnancy and delivery to greatly reduce your risk of
spreading the disease to your baby.

## What happens during an HIV test?

You will either get a blood test in a lab, or do your own test at home.

 **For a blood test in a lab:**

    * A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

 **For at home test, you will need to get a sample of saliva from your mouth
or a drop of blood from your fingertip.**

    * The test kit will provide instructions on how to get your sample, package it, and send it to a lab.
      * For a saliva test, you will use special spatula-like tool to take a swab from your mouth.
      * For a fingertip antibody blood test, you will use a special tool to prick your finger and collect a sample of blood.

For more information on at-home testing, talk to your health care provider.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an HIV test. But you should talk
with a counselor before and/or after your test so you can better understand
what the results mean and your treatment options if you are diagnosed with
HIV.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having any HIV screening test. If you get a blood
test from a lab, you may have slight pain or bruising at the spot where the
needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your result is negative, it can mean you don't have HIV. A negative result
may also mean you have HIV but it's too soon to tell. It can take a few weeks
for HIV antibodies and antigens to show up in your body. If your result is
negative, your health care provider may order additional HIV tests at a later
date.

If your result is positive, you will get a follow-up test to confirm the
diagnosis. If both tests are positive, it means you have HIV. It does not mean
you have AIDS. While there is no cure for HIV, there are better treatments
available now than in the past. Today, people with HIV are living longer, with
a better quality of life than ever before. If you are living with HIV, it's
important to see your health care provider regularly.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## References

    1. AIDSinfo [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; HIV Overview: HIV Testing [updated 2017 Dec 7; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/understanding-hiv-aids/fact-sheets/19/47/hiv-testing
    2. AIDSinfo [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; HIV Prevention: The Basics of HIV Prevention [updated 2017 Dec 7; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/understanding-hiv-aids/fact-sheets/20/48/the-basics-of-hiv-prevention
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; About HIV/AIDS [updated 2017 May 30; cited 2017 Dec 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/whatishiv.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Living with HIV [updated 2017 Aug 22; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/livingwithhiv/index.html
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Testing [updated 2017 Sep 14; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/testing.html
    6. HIV.gov [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Understanding HIV Test Results [updated 2015 May 17; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/hiv-testing/learn-about-hiv-testing/understanding-hiv-test-results
    7. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: HIV and AIDS [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/infectious_diseases/hiv_and_aids_85,P00617
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. HIV Antibody and HIV Antigen (p24); [updated 2018 Jan 15; cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/hiv-antibody-and-hiv-antigen-p24
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. HIV Infections and AIDS; [updated 2018 Jan 4; cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/conditions/hiv
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. HIV testing: Overview; 2017 Aug 3 [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/hiv-testing/home/ovc-20305981
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. HIV testing: Results; 2017 Aug 3 [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/hiv-testing/details/results/rsc-20306035
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. HIV testing: What you can expect; 2017 Aug 3 [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/hiv-testing/details/what-you-can-expect/rec-20306002
    13. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. HIV testing: Why itâs done; 2017 Aug 3 [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/hiv-testing/details/why-its-done/icc-20305986
    14. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/human-immunodeficiency-virus-hiv-infection/human-immunodeficiency-virus-hiv-infection
    15. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: HIV-1Antibody [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=hiv_1_antibody
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: HIV-1/HIV-2 Rapid Screen [cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=hiv_hiv2_rapid_screen
    18. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; What is AIDS? [updated 2016 Aug 9; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.hiv.va.gov/patient/basics/what-is-AIDS.asp
    19. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; What is HIV? [updated 2016 Aug 9; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.hiv.va.gov/patient/basics/what-is-HIV.asp
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Test: Results [updated 2017 Mar 3; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hiv-test/hw4961.html#hw5004
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Test: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 3; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hiv-test/hw4961.html
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Test: Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Mar 3; cited 2017 Dec 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/hiv-test/hw4961.html#hw4979

## Related Health Topics

    * HIV/AIDS
    * HIV/AIDS and Infections
    * HIV/AIDS and Pregnancy
    * HIV/AIDS Medicines
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Living with HIV/AIDS

## Related Lab Test Information

    * CD4 Lymphocyte Count
    * HIV Viral Load
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 21 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

