Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ana-antinuclear-antibody-test/    
                                Description: An antinuclear antibody test checks to see if you have an autoimmune disorder, a condition where the immune system attacks healthy cells. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/ana-antinuclear-antibody-
test/

# ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an ANA (antinuclear antibody) test?

An ANA test looks for antinuclear antibodies in your blood. If the test finds
antinuclear antibodies in your blood, it may mean you have an autoimmune
disorder. An autoimmune disorder causes your immune system to attack your own
cells, tissues, and/or organs by mistake. These disorders can cause serious
health problems.

Antibodies are proteins that your immune system makes to fight foreign
substances like viruses and bacteria. But an antinuclear antibody attacks your
own healthy cells instead. It's called "antinuclear" because it targets the
nucleus (center) of the cells.

Other names: antinuclear antibody panel, fluorescent antinuclear antibody,
FANA, ANA

## What is it used for?

An ANA test is used to help diagnose autoimmune disorders, including:

    * Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). This is the most common type of lupus, a chronic disease affecting multiple parts of the body, including the joints, blood vessels, kidneys, and brain.
    * Rheumatoid arthritis, a condition that causes pain and swelling of the joints, mostly in the hands and feet
    * Scleroderma, a rare disease affecting the skin, joints, and blood vessels
    * Sjogren's syndrome, a rare disease affecting the body's moisture-making glands

## Why do I need an ANA test?

Your health care provider may order an ANA test if you have symptoms of lupus
or another autoimmune disorder. These symptoms include:

    * Fever
    * Red, butterfly-shaped rash (a symptom of lupus)
    * Fatigue
    * Joint pain and swelling
    * Muscle pain

## What happens during an ANA test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an ANA test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

A positive result on an ANA test means that antinuclear antibodies were found
in your blood. You may get a positive result if:

    * You have SLE (lupus).
    * You have a different type of autoimmune disease.
    * You have a viral infection.

A positive result doesn't necessarily mean you have a disease. Some healthy
people have antinuclear antibodies in their blood. In addition, certain
medicines can affect your results.

If your ANA test results are positive, your health care provider will likely
order more tests, especially if you have symptoms of disease. If you have
questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an ANA test?

Antinuclear antibody levels tend to increase with age. As many as one-third of
healthy adults over the age of 65 may have a positive ANA test result.

## References

    1. American College of Rheumatology [Internet]. Atlanta: American College of Rheumatology; c2017. Antinuclear Antibodies (ANA) [updated 2017 Mar; cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.rheumatology.org/I-Am-A/Patient-Caregiver/Diseases-Conditions/Antinuclear-Antibodies-ANA
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Antinuclear Antibodies (ANAS); 53 p.
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Antinuclear Antibody (ANA); [updated 2018 Feb 1; cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/ana/tab/test
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Scleroderma; [updated 2017 Sep 20; cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/conditions/scleroderma
    5. Lupus Research Alliance [Internet]. New York: Lupus Research Alliance; c2017. About Lupus [cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.lupusresearch.org/understanding-lupus/what-is-lupus/about-lupus
    6. Lupus Research Alliance [Internet]. New York: Lupus Research Alliance; c2017. Symptoms [cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.lupusresearch.org/understanding-lupus/what-is-lupus/symptoms
    7. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. SjÃ¶gren's Syndrome [cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/bone,-joint,-and-muscle-disorders/autoimmune-disorders-of-connective-tissue/sj%C3%B6gren-syndrome
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) [cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/bone,-joint,-and-muscle-disorders/autoimmune-disorders-of-connective-tissue/systemic-lupus-erythematosus-sle
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. ANA test: Overview; 2017 Aug 3 [cited Nov 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ana-test/home/ovc-20344718
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. ANA test: Results; 2017 Aug 3 [cited Nov 17]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ana-test/details/results/rsc-20344732
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. ANA test: Why it's done; 2017 Aug 3 [cited Nov 17]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/ana-test/details/why-its-done/icc-20344722
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests; [cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    13. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; rheumatoid arthritis; 2017 Nov 14 [cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/rheumatoid-arthritis
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2017. Antinuclear antibody panel: Overview [updated 2017 Nov 17; cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/antinuclear-antibody-panel
    15. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Antinuclear Antibody [cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=antinuclear_antibodies
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Antinuclear Antibodies (ANA): Results [updated 2016 Oct 31; cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/antinuclear-antibodies/hw2297.html#hw2323
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Antinuclear Antibodies (ANA): Test Overview [updated 2016 Oct 31; cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/antinuclear-antibodies/hw2297.html
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Antinuclear Antibodies (ANA): Why It's Done [updated 2016 Oct 31; cited 2017 Nov 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/antinuclear-antibodies/hw2297.html#hw2304

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Lupus
    * Rheumatoid Arthritis
    * Scleroderma
    * Sjogren's Syndrome

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 18 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

