Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/braf-genetic-test/    
                                Description: A BRAF genetic test is most often used to guide treatment for certain cancers. Mutations in the BRAF gene are common in melanoma and other cancers. Some medicines are especially effective in cancer patients with BRAF mutations. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

BRAF Genetic Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/braf-genetic-test/

# BRAF Genetic Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a BRAF genetic test?

A BRAF genetic test looks for a change, known as a mutation, in a gene called
BRAF. Genes are the basic units of heredity passed down from your mother and
father.

The BRAF gene makes a protein that helps control cell growth. It's known as an
oncogene. An oncogene works like a gas pedal on a car. Normally, an oncogene
turns on cell growth as needed. But if you have a BRAF mutation, it's like the
gas pedal is stuck down, and the gene can't stop cells from growing.
Uncontrolled cell growth can lead to cancer.

A BRAF mutation can be inherited from your parents or acquired later in life.
Mutations that happen later in life are usually caused by the environment or
from a mistake that happens in your body during cell division. Inherited BRAF
mutations are very rare, but they can cause serious health problems.

Acquired (also known as somatic) BRAF mutations are much more common. These
mutations have been found in about half of all cases of melanoma, the most
serious form of skin cancer. BRAF mutations are also often found in other
disorders and different types of cancer, including cancers of the colon,
thyroid, and ovaries. Cancers with a BRAF mutation tend to be more serious
than those without the mutation.

Other names: BRAF gene mutation analysis, Melanoma, BRAF V600 mutation, cobas

## What is it used for?

The test is most often used to look for a BRAF mutation in patients with
melanoma or other BRAF-related cancers. Certain cancer medicines are
especially effective in people who have a BRAF mutation. The same medicines
are not as effective and sometimes dangerous to people who don't have the
mutation.

BRAF testing may also be used to see if you are at risk for cancer based on
family history and/or your own health history.

## Why do I need a BRAF genetic test?

You may need BRAF testing if you've been diagnosed with melanoma or another
type of cancer. Knowing whether you have the mutation can help your provider
prescribe the right treatment.

You may also need this test to see if you are at higher risk for getting
cancer. Risk factors include a family history of cancer and/or having cancer
at an early age. The specific age depends on the type of cancer.

## What happens during a BRAF genetic test?

Most BRAF tests are done in a procedure called a tumor biopsy. During a
biopsy, a health care provider will take out a small piece of tissue by
cutting or scraping the surface of a tumor. If your provider needs to test
tumor tissue from inside your body, he or she may use a special needle to
withdraw the sample.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You usually don't need any special preparations for a BRAF test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

You may have a little bruising or bleeding at the biopsy site. You may also
have a little discomfort at the site for a day or two.

## What do the results mean?

If you have melanoma or other type of cancer, and the results show you have a
BRAF mutation, your provider can prescribe medicines that are designed to
target the mutation. These medicines can be more effective than other
treatments.

If you have melanoma or other type of cancer, and the results show you _don't_
have a mutation, your provider will prescribe different types of medicines to
treat your cancer.

If you have not been diagnosed with cancer and your results show you have a
BRAF genetic mutation, it **does not** mean you have cancer, but you have a
higher risk of cancer. But more frequent cancer screenings, such as a skin
exam, can reduce your risk. During a skin exam, a health care provider will
carefully look over the skin on your whole body to check for moles and other
suspicious growths.

Talk to your provider about other steps you can take to reduce your risk.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a BRAF test?

You may hear your provider talk about a V600E mutation. There are different
types of BRAF mutations. V600E is the most common type of BRAF mutation.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Melanoma Skin Cancer [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/melanoma-skin-cancer.html
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes [updated 2014 Jun 25; cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/genetics/genes-and-cancer/oncogenes-tumor-suppressor-genes.html
    3. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Targeted Therapy for Melanoma Skin Cancer [updated 2018 Jun 28; cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/melanoma-skin-cancer/treating/targeted-therapy.html
    4. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Genetic Testing for Cancer Risk; 2017 Jul [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/cancer-basics/genetics/genetic-testing-cancer-risk
    5. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Understanding Targeted Therapy; 2018 May [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/how-cancer-treated/personalized-and-targeted-therapies/understanding-targeted-therapy
    6. Integrated Oncology [Internet]. Laboratory Corporation of America; c2018. BRAF Gene Mutation Analysis [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.integratedoncology.com/test-menu/braf-gene-mutation-analysis/07d322d7-33e3-480f-b900-1b3fd2b45f28
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Biopsy [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/biopsy
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Genetic Tests for Targeted Cancer Therapy [updated 2018 Jul 10; cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/genetic-tests-targeted-cancer-therapy
    9. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: BRAFT: BRAF Mutation Analysis (V600E), Tumor: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/35370
    10. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Genetic Testing for Hereditary Cancer Syndromes [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/genetic-testing-fact-sheet
    11. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: BRAF gene [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/braf-gene
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: BRAF (V600E) mutation [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/braf-v600e-mutation
    13. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    14. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: oncogene [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/oncogene
    15. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; BRAF gene; 2018 Jul 3 [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/BRAF
    16. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is a gene mutation and how do mutations occur?; 2018 Jul 3 [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/mutationsanddisorders/genemutation
    17. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2017. Test Center: Melanoma, BRAF V600 Mutation, Cobas: Interpretive Guide [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/testguide.action?dc=TS_BRAF_V600&tabview
    18. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2017. Test Center: Melanoma, BRAF V600 Mutation, Cobas: Overview [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/TestDetail.action?ntc=90956
    19. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Melanoma: Targeted Therapy [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=34&contentid=BMelT14
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Physical Exam of the Skin for Skin Cancer: Exam Overview; [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Jul 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/testdetail/physical-exam/hw206422.html#hw206425UW
    21. Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Skin Cancer, Melanoma: Topic Overview [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/skin-cancer-melanoma/hw206547.html
    22. UW Health: American Family Children's Hospital [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Kids Health: Biopsy [cited 2018 Jul 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealthkids.org/kidshealth/en/parents/biopsy.html/
    23. Zial J, Hui P. BRAF mutation testing in clinical practice. Expert Rev Mol Diagn [Internet]. 2012 Mar [cited 2018 Jul 10]; 12(2): 127â38.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22369373

## Related Health Topics

    * Bile Duct Cancer
    * Cancer
    * Colorectal Cancer
    * Genetic Counseling
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Genetic Testing
    * Health Screening
    * Leukemia
    * Lung Cancer
    * Melanoma
    * Multiple Myeloma
    * Ovarian Cancer
    * Skin Cancer
    * Thyroid Cancer

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BRCA Test
    * CA-125 Blood Test (Ovarian Cancer)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Karyotype Genetic Test
    * PTEN Genetic Test
    * TP53 Genetic Test
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

