Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001526.htm    
                                Description: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder. It often appears in the first 3 years of life. ASD affects the brain    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Autism spectrum disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001526.htm

# Autism spectrum disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder. It often appears
in the first 3 years of life. ASD affects the brain's ability to develop
normal social and communication skills.

## Causes

The exact cause of ASD isn't known. It's likely that a number of factors lead
to ASD. Research shows that genes may be involved, since ASD runs in some
families. Certain medicines taken during pregnancy may also lead to ASD in the
child.

Other causes have been suspected, but not proven. Some scientists believe that
damage to a part of the brain, called the amygdala, may be involved. Others
are looking at whether a virus may trigger symptoms.

Some parents have heard that vaccines may cause ASD. But studies have found no
link between vaccines and ASD. All expert medical and government groups state
that there is no link between vaccines and ASD.

The increase in children with ASD may be due to better diagnosis and newer
definitions of ASD. Autism spectrum disorder now includes syndromes that used
to be regarded as separate disorders:

    * Autistic disorder
    * Asperger syndrome
    * Childhood disintegrative disorder
    * Pervasive developmental disorder

## Symptoms

Most parents of ASD children suspect that something is wrong by the time the
child is 18 months old. Children with ASD often have problems with:

    * Pretend play
    * Social interactions
    * Verbal and nonverbal communication

Some children seem normal before age 1 or 2. They then suddenly lose language
or social skills they already had.

Symptoms can vary from moderate to severe.

A person with autism may:

    * Be very sensitive in sight, hearing, touch, smell, or taste (for example, they refuse to wear "itchy" clothes and get upset if they're forced to wear the clothes)
    * Be very upset when routines are changed
    * Repeat body movements over and over 
    * Be unusually attached to things

Communication problems may include:

    * Can't start or maintain a conversation
    * Uses gestures instead of words
    * Develops language slowly or not at all
    * Doesn't adjust gaze to look at objects that others are looking at
    * Doesn't refer to self the right way (for example, says "you want water" when the child means "I want water")
    * Doesn't point to show other people objects (normally occurs in the first 14 months of life)
    * Repeats words or memorized passages, such as commercials

Social interaction:

    * Doesn't make friends
    * Doesn't play interactive games
    * Is withdrawn
    * May not respond to eye contact or smiles, or may avoid eye contact
    * May treat others as objects
    * Prefers to be alone rather than with others
    * Isn't able to show empathy

Response to sensory information:

    * Doesn't startle at loud noises
    * Has very high or very low senses of sight, hearing, touch, smell, or taste
    * May find normal noises painful and hold their hands over theirÂ ears
    * May withdraw from physical contact because it's too stimulating or overwhelming
    * Rubs surfaces, mouths or licks objects
    * May have a very high or very low response to pain

Play:

    * Doesn't imitate the actions of others
    * Prefers solitary or ritualistic play
    * Shows little pretend or imaginative play

Behaviors:

    * Acts out with intense tantrums
    * Gets stuck on a single topic or task
    * Has a short attention span
    * Has very narrow interests
    * Is overactive or very passive
    * Is aggressive toward others or self
    * Shows a strong need for things being the same
    * Repeats body movements

## Exams and Tests

All children should have routine exams done by their pediatrician. More tests
may be needed if the health care provider or parents are concerned. This is
true if a child doesn't meet any of these language milestones:

    * Babbling by 12 months
    * Gesturing (pointing, waving bye-bye) by 12 months
    * Saying single words by 16 months
    * Saying two-word spontaneous phrases by 24 months (not just echoing)
    * Losing any language or social skills at any age

These children might need a hearing test, blood lead test, and screening test
for ASD.

A provider experienced in diagnosing and treating ASD should see the child to
make the actual diagnosis. Because there isn't a blood test for ASD, diagnosis
is often based on guidelines from a medical book titled _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-V)_.

An evaluation of ASD often includes a complete physical and nervous system
(neurologic) exam. Tests may be done to see if there is a problem with genes
or the body's metabolism.Â Metabolism is the body's physical and chemical
processes.

ASD includes a broad spectrum of symptoms. So, a single, brief evaluation
can't tell a child's true abilities.Â It's best to have a team of specialists
to evaluate the child. They might evaluate:

    * Communication
    * Language
    * Motor skills
    * Speech
    * Success at school
    * Thinking abilities

Some parents don't want to have their child diagnosed because they're afraid
the child will be labeled. But without a diagnosis, their child may not get
the needed treatment and services.

## Treatment

At this time, there is no cure for ASD. A treatment program will greatly
improve the outlook for most young children. Most programs build on the
interests of the child in a highly structured schedule of constructive
activities.

Treatment plans may combine techniques, including:

    * Applied behavior analysis (ABA)
    * Medicines, if needed
    * Occupational therapy
    * Physical therapy
    * Speech-language therapy

APPLIED BEHAVIORAL ANALYSIS (ABA)

This program is for younger children. ItÂ helps in some cases. ABA uses one-
on-one teaching that reinforces various skills. The goal is to get the child
close to normal functioning for their age.

An ABA program is often done in a child's home. A behavioral psychologist
oversees the program. ABA programs can be very expensive and aren't widely
used by school systems. Parents often have to find funding and staffing from
other sources, which aren't available in many communities.

TEACCH

Another program is called the Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related
Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH). It uses picture schedules and
other visual cues. These helpÂ children work on their own and organize and
structure their environments.

Though TEACCH tries to improve a child's skills and ability to adapt, it also
accepts the problems associated with ASD. Unlike ABA programs, TEACCH doesn't
expect children to achieve typical development with treatment.

MEDICINES

There is no medicine that treats ASD itself. But medicines are often used to
treat behavior or emotional problems that people with ASD may have. These
include:

    * Aggression
    * Anxiety
    * Attention problems
    * Extreme compulsions that the child cannot stop
    * Hyperactivity
    * Impulsiveness
    * Irritability
    * Mood swings
    * Outbursts
    * Sleep difficulty
    * Tantrums

Only the drug risperidone is approved to treat children ages 5 through 16 for
the irritability and aggression that can occur with ASD. Other medicines that
may also be used are mood stabilizers and stimulants.

DIET

Some children with ASD seem to do well on a gluten-free or casein-free diet.
Gluten is in foods containing wheat, rye, and barley. Casein is in milk,
cheese, and other dairy products. Not all experts agree that changes in diet
make a difference. And not all studies have shown positive results.

IfÂ you're thinking about these or other diet changes, talk to both a provider
and a registered dietitian. You want to be sure thatÂ your child is still
getting enough calories and the right nutrients.

OTHER APPROACHES

Beware of widely publicized treatments for ASD that don't have scientific
support, and reports of miracle cures. If your child has ASD, talk with other
parents. Also discuss your concerns with ASD specialists. Follow the progress
of ASD research, which is rapidly developing.

## Support Groups

Many organizations provide additional information and help on ASD.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With the right treatment, many ASD symptoms can be improved. Most people with
ASD have some symptoms throughout their lives. But, they're able to live with
their families or in the community.

## Possible Complications

ASD can beÂ linked with other brain disorders, such as:

    * Fragile X syndrome
    * Intellectual disability
    * Tuberous sclerosis

Some people with autism develop seizures.

The stress of dealing with autism can lead to social and emotionalÂ problems
for families and caregivers, and for the person with autism.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Parents usually suspect that there is a developmental problem long before a
diagnosis is made. Call your provider if you think that your child is not
developing normally.

## Alternative Names

Autism; Autistic disorder; Asperger syndrome; Childhood disintegrative
disorder; Pervasive developmental disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Neurodevelopmental disorders. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:31-86.

Bridgemohan CF. Autism spectrum disorder. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 54.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Autism spectrum disorder,
recommendations and guidelines. www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/autism/hcp-
recommendations.html. Updated April 26, 2018. Accessed April 15, 2019.

Nass R, Sidhu R, Ross G. Autism and other developmental disabilities. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 90.

National Institute of Mental Health website. Autism spectrum disorder.
www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/autism-spectrum-disorders-asd/index.shtml.
Updated March 2018. Accessed April 15, 2019.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autism Spectrum
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Autism_thumb.jpg)Autism Spectrum
Disorder _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

