Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002804.htm    
                                Description: Carbon monoxide is an odorless gas that causes thousands of deaths each year in North America. Breathing in carbon monoxide is very dangerous. It is the leading cause of poisoning death in the United States.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carbon monoxide poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002804.htm

# Carbon monoxide poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carbon monoxide is an odorless gas that causes thousands of deaths each year
in North America. Breathing in carbon monoxide is very dangerous. It is the
leading cause of poisoning death in the United States.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Carbon monoxide is a chemical produced from the incomplete burning of natural
gas or other products containing carbon.Â This includes exhaust, faulty
heaters, fires, and factory emissions.

## Where Found

The following items may produce carbon monoxide:

    * Anything that burns coal, gasoline, kerosene, oil, propane, or wood
    * Automobile engines
    * Charcoal grills (charcoal should never be burned indoors)
    * Indoor and portable heating systems
    * Portable propane heaters
    * Stoves (indoor and camp stoves)
    * Water heaters that use natural gas 

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

When you breathe in carbon monoxide, the poison replaces the oxygen in your
bloodstream. Your heart, brain, and body will become starved of oxygen.

Symptoms vary from person to person. Those at high risk include young
children, older adults, people with lung or heart disease, people who are at
high altitudes, and smokers. Carbon monoxide can harm a fetus (unborn baby
still in the womb).

Symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning may include:

    * Breathing problems, including no breathing, shortness of breath, or rapid breathing
    * Chest pain (may occur suddenly in people with angina)
    * Coma
    * Confusion
    * Convulsions
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness
    * Fainting
    * Fatigue
    * General weakness and achiness
    * Headache
    * Hyperactivity
    * Impaired judgment
    * Irritability
    * Low blood pressure
    * Muscle weakness
    * Rapid or abnormal heartbeat
    * Shock
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Unconsciousness

Animals can also be poisoned by carbon monoxide. People who have pets at home
may notice that their animals become weak or unresponsive from carbon monoxide
exposure. Often the pets will get sick before humans.

Since many of these symptoms can occur with viral illnesses, carbon monoxide
poisoning is often confused with these conditions. This can lead to a delay in
getting help.

## Home Care

If the person breathed in the poison, immediately move him or her to fresh
air. Seek immediate medical right away.

PREVENTION

Install a carbon monoxide detector on each floor of your home. Place an
additional detector near any major gas-burning appliances (such as a furnace
or water heater).

Many carbon monoxide poisonings occur in the winter months when furnaces, gas
fireplaces, and portable heaters are being used and windows are closed. Have
heaters and gas-burning appliances regularly inspected to make sure they are
safe to use.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake or alert?)
    * How long they may have been exposed to the carbon monoxide, if known 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. You can call 24 hours a day, 7
days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The person
may receive:

    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (high-pressure oxygen given in a special chamber)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Carbon monoxide poisoning can cause death. For those who survive, recovery is
slow. How well a person does depends on the amount and length of exposure to
the carbon monoxide. Permanent brain damage may occur.

If the person still has impaired mental ability after 2 weeks, the chance of a
complete recovery is worse. Impaired mental ability can reappear after a
person has been symptom-free for 1 to 2 weeks.

## References

Christiani DC. Physical and chemical injuries of the lung. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 94.

Nelson LS, Hoffman RS. Inhaled toxins. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 153.

Pincus MR, Bluth MH, Abraham NZ. Toxicology and therapeutic drug monitoring.
In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management
by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carbon Monoxide
Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarbonMonoxidePoisoning_thumb.jpg)Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

