Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000118.htm    
                                Description: Asbestosis is a lung disease that occurs from breathing in asbestos fibers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asbestosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000118.htm

# Asbestosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Asbestosis is a lung disease that occurs from breathing in asbestos fibers.

## Causes

Breathing in asbestos fibers can cause scar tissue (fibrosis) to form inside
the lung. Scarred lung tissue does not expand and contract normally.

How severe the disease is depends on how long the person was exposed to
asbestos and the amount that was breathed in and the type of fibers breathed
in. Often, the symptoms aren't noticed for 20 years or more after the asbestos
exposure.

Asbestos fibers were commonly used in construction before 1975. Asbestos
exposure occurred in asbestos mining and milling, construction, fireproofing,
and other industries. Families of asbestos workers can also be exposed from
particles brought home on the worker's clothing.

Other asbestos-related diseases include:

    * Pleural plaques (calcification)
    * Malignant mesothelioma (cancer of the pleura, the lining of the lung), which can develop 20 to 40 years after exposure
    * Pleural effusion, which is a collection that develops around the lung a few years after asbestos exposure and is benign
    * Lung cancer 

Workers today are less likely to get asbestos-related diseases because of
government regulations.

Cigarette smoking increases the risk of developing asbestos-related diseases.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Chest pain
    * Cough 
    * Shortness of breath with activity (slowly gets worse over time)
    * Tightness in the chest 

Possible other symptoms include:

    * Clubbing of fingers
    * Nail abnormalities

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.Â

When listening to the chest with a stethoscope, theÂ provider may hear
crackling sounds called rales.

These tests may help diagnose the disease:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the lungs
    * Lung function tests

## Treatment

There is no cure. Stopping exposure to asbestos is essential. To ease
symptoms, drainage and chest percussionÂ can help remove fluids from the
lungs.

TheÂ doctor may prescribe aerosol medicines to thin lung fluids. People with
this condition may need to receive oxygen by mask or by a plastic piece that
fits into the nostrils. Certain people may need a lung transplant.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of this illness by joining a lung support group.
Sharing with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not
feel alone.

These resources can provide more information on asbestosis:

    * American Lung Association -- www.lung.org/lung-health-and-diseases/lung-disease-lookup/asbestosis
    * The Asbestos Disease Awareness Organization -- www.asbestosdiseaseawareness.org
    * United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration -- www.osha.gov/SLTC/asbestos

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the amount of asbestos you were exposed to andÂ how long
you were exposed.

People who develop malignant mesothelioma tend to have a poor outcome.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you suspect that you have been exposed to asbestos and
you have breathing problems. Having asbestosis makes it easier for you to
develop lung infections. Talk to your provider about getting the flu and
pneumonia vaccines.

If you've been diagnosed with asbestosis, call your provider right away if you
develop a cough, shortness of breath, fever, or other signs of a lung
infection, especially if you think you have the flu. Since your lungs are
already damaged, it's very important to have the infection treated right away.
This will prevent breathing problems from becoming severe, as well as further
damage to your lungs.

## Prevention

In people who have been exposed to asbestos for more than 10 years, screening
with a chest x-ray every 3 to 5 years may detect asbestos-related diseases
early. Stopping cigarette smoking can greatly reduce the risk of asbestos-
related lung cancer.

## Alternative Names

Pulmonary fibrosis - from asbestos exposure; Interstitial pneumonitis - from
asbestos exposure

## Patient Instructions

    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Cowie RL, Becklake MR. Pneumoconioses. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

Tarlo SM. Occupational lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 87.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Asbestos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Asbestos_thumb.jpg)Asbestos _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

