Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002838.htm    
                                Description: Many weed killers contain dangerous chemicals that are harmful if swallowed. This article discusses poisoning by swallowing weed killers containing a chemical called glyphosate.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Grass and weed killer poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002838.htm

# Grass and weed killer poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many weed killers contain dangerous chemicals that are harmful if swallowed.
This article discusses poisoning by swallowing weed killers containing a
chemical called glyphosate.

This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of
an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local
emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at
1-800-222-1222.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Glyphosate is the poisonous ingredient in some weed killers.

Surfactants, such as polyoxyethyleneamine (POEA), are also found in many of
the same weed killers, and can also be toxic.

## Where Found

Glyphosate is in many weed killers, including those with these brand names:

    * Roundup
    * Bronco
    * Glifonox
    * Kleen-up
    * Rodeo
    * Weedoff 

Other products may also contain glyphosate.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of glyphosate poisoning include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Anxiety
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Coma
    * Blue lips or fingernails (rare)
    * Diarrhea
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness
    * Headache
    * Irritation in the mouth and throat
    * Low blood pressure
    * Nausea and vomiting (may vomit blood)
    * Weakness 
    * Kidney failure
    * Slow heart rate

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make a person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to. If the chemical is on the skin
or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

Exposure to glyphosate is not as harmful as exposure to other phosphates. But
contact with a very large amount of it can cause severe symptoms. Care will
begin by contaminating the person while starting other treatments.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The person may
receive:

    * Blood and urine tests.
    * Breathing support, including oxygen. They may be placed on a breathing machine with a tube through the mouth into the throat, if needed.
    * Chest x-ray.
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
    * Intravenous fluids (through a vein).
    * Medicines to reverse the effects of the poison and treat symptoms.
    * Tube placed down the nose and into the stomach (sometimes).
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation). This may need to be continued for several days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who continue to improve over the first 4 to 6 hours after receiving
medical treatment usually fully recover.

Keep all chemicals, cleaners, and industrial products in their original
containers and marked as poison, and out of the reach of children. This will
reduce the risk of poisoning and overdose.

## Alternative Names

Weedoff poisoning; Roundup poisoning

## References

Little M. Toxicology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 29.

Welker K, Thompson TM. Pesticides. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

