Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002832.htm    
                                Description: Insecticide is a chemical that kills bugs. Insecticide poisoning occurs when someone swallows or breathes in this substance or it is absorbed through the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Insecticide poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002832.htm

# Insecticide poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Insecticide is a chemical that kills bugs. Insecticide poisoning occurs when
someone swallows or breathes in this substance or it is absorbed through the
skin.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Most household bug sprays contain plant-derived chemicals called pyrethrins.
These chemicals were originally isolated from chrysanthemum flowers and are
generally not harmful. However, they can cause life-threatening breathing
problems if they are breathed in.

Stronger insecticides, which a commercial greenhouse might use or someone
might store in their garage, contain many dangerous substances. These include:

    * Carbamates
    * Organophosphates
    * Paradichlorobenzenes (mothballs)

## Where Found

Various insecticides contain these chemicals.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of insecticide poisoning in different parts of the body.

Symptoms of pyrethrin poisoning:

LUNGS AND AIRWAYS

    * Breathing difficulty 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)
    * Seizures

SKIN

    * Irritation
    * Redness or swelling 

Symptoms of organophosphate or carbamate poisoning:

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Slow heart rate 

LUNGS AND AIRWAYS

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Wheezing 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Anxiety
    * Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)
    * Convulsions
    * Dizziness
    * Headache
    * Weakness

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Increased urination 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Drooling from increased saliva
    * Increased tears in the eyes
    * Small pupils 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Diarrhea
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting

SKIN

    * Blue-colored lips and fingernails

Note: Serious poisoning can occur if an organophosphate gets on your bare skin
or if you don't wash your skin soon after it gets on you. Large amounts of the
chemical soak through the skin unless you are protected. Life-threatening
paralysis and death can occur very quickly.

Symptoms of paradichlorobenzene poisoning:

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Diarrhea
    * Abdominal pain
    * Nausea and vomiting

MUSCLES

    * Muscle spasms

Note: Paradichlorobenzene mothballs are not very toxic. They have replaced the
more toxic camphor and naphthalene types.

## Home Care

Get medical help right away. Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at
least 15 minutes.

If the person breathed in the poison, move them to fresh air right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Bronchoscopy: camera down the throat to look for burns in the airways and lungs
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram), or heart tracing
    * Endoscopy: camera down the throat to look for burns in the esophagus and the stomach

Treatment may include:

    * Fluids by IV (through a vein)
    * Activated charcoal
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to empty the stomach (gastric lavage)
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation), perhaps every few hours for several days
    * Surgery to remove burned skin
    * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on how severe the poisoning is and how quickly
treatment is received. The faster medical help is given, the better the chance
for recovery. Swallowing these poisons can have severe effects on many parts
of the body.

It is a good sign that recovery will occur if the person continues to improve
in the first 4 to 6 hours after they receive treatment.

Although the symptoms are the same for carbamate and organophosphate
poisoning, it is harder to recover after organophosphate poisoning.

## Alternative Names

Organophosphate poisoning; Carbamate poisoning

## References

Cannon RD, Ruha A-M. Insecticides, herbicides, and rodenticides. In: Adams JG,
ed. _Emergency Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap 146.

Welker K, Thompson TM. Pesticides. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 152.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

