Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001085.htm    
                                Description: Paraquat (dipyridylium) is a highly toxic weed killer (herbicide). In the past, the United States encouraged Mexico to use it to destroy marijuana plants. Later, research showed this herbicide was dangerous    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paraquat poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001085.htm

# Paraquat poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paraquat (dipyridylium) is a highly toxic weed killer (herbicide). In the
past, the United States encouraged Mexico to use it to destroy marijuana
plants. Later, research showed this herbicide was dangerous to workers who
applied it to the plants.

This article discusses the health problems that can occur from swallowing or
breathing in paraquat.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Causes

In the United States, paraquat is classified as "restricted commercial use."
People must obtain a license to use the product.

Breathing in paraquat may cause lung damage and can lead to a disease called
paraquat lung. paraquat causes damage to the body when it touches the lining
of the mouth, stomach, or intestines. You can get sick if paraquat touches a
cut on your skin. Paraquat may also damage the kidneys, liver, and esophagus
(the tube that food goes down from your mouth to your stomach).

If paraquat is swallowed, death can quickly occur. Death may occur from a hole
in the esophagus, or from severe inflammation of the area that surrounds the
major blood vessels and airways in the middle of the chest.

Long-term exposure to paraquat may cause scarring of the lungs called
pulmonary fibrosis. This makes it hard to breathe.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of paraquat poisoning include:

    * Burns and pain in the throat
    * Coma
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Nosebleed
    * Seizures
    * Shock
    * Shortness of breath
    * Stomach pain
    * Vomiting, including vomiting blood 

## Exams and Tests

You will be asked if you have been exposed to paraquat. Take the container
with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor your vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Tests that may be done
include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Bronchoscopy (tube through the mouth and throat ) to view any lung damage
    * Endoscopy (tube through the mouth and throat ) to look for any damage to the esophagus and stomach 

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for paraquat poisoning. The goal is to relieve
symptoms and treat complications. If you are exposed, first aid measures
include:

    * Removing all contaminated clothing.
    * If the chemical touched your skin, wash the area with soap and water for 15 minutes. Do not scrub hard, because that could break your skin and let more of the paraquat absorb into your body.
    * If the paraquat got into your eyes, flush them with water for 15 minutes.
    * If you have swallowed paraquat, get treated with activated charcoal as quickly as possible in order to decrease the amount absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract. Sicker people may need a procedure called hemoperfusion, which filters the blood through charcoal to try to remove paraquat from the lungs. 

At the hospital, you will likely receive:

    * Activated charcoal by mouth or a tube through the nose into the stomach if the person presents for help within an hour of ingesting the poison
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on how severe the exposure is. Some people may develop
mild breathing-related symptoms and have a full recovery. Others may have
permanent changes in their lungs. If a person swallowed the poison, death is
likely without immediate medical care.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur from paraquat poisoning:

    * Lung failure
    * Holes or burns in the esophagus
    * Inflammation and infection in the chest cavity, affecting vital organs and blood vessels
    * Kidney failure
    * Scarring of the lungs 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you believe you have been exposed to paraquat, seek medical care right
away.

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## Prevention

Read labels on all chemical products. Do NOT use any that contain paraquat.
Stay away from areas where it may be used. Keep all poisons in their original
container and out of reach from children.

## Alternative Names

Paraquat lung

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs

## References

Blanc PD. Acute responses to toxic exposures. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 75.

Welker K, Thompson TM. Pesticides. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

