Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002902.htm    
                                Description: Paradichlorobenzene is a white, solid chemical with a very strong odor. Poisoning can occur if you swallow this chemical.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paradichlorobenzene poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002902.htm

# Paradichlorobenzene poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paradichlorobenzene is a white, solid chemical with a very strong odor.
Poisoning can occur if you swallow this chemical.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Paradichlorobenzene

## Where Found

These products contain paradichlorobenzene:

    * Toilet bowl deodorizers
    * Moth repellant 

Other products may also contain paradichlorobenzene.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of paradichlorobenzene poisoning in different parts of the
body.

EYES, EARS, THROAT, AND MOUTH

    * Burning in mouth 

LUNGS AND AIRWAYS

    * Breathing problems (rapid, slow, or painful)
    * Cough
    * Shallow breathing 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Changes in alertness
    * Headache
    * Slurred speech
    * Weakness 

SKIN

    * Yellow skin (jaundice) 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Abdominal pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Home Care

Get medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at
least 15 minutes.

If the chemical was swallowed, give the person water or milk right away,
unless instructed otherwise by a provider. DO NOT give water or milk if the
person is unconscious (has a decreased level of alertness).

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake or alert?)
    * Name of the product
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

However,Â DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Activated charcoal
    * Laxatives
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This type of poisoning is usually not life-threatening. Little will likely
happen if your child accidentally puts a moth ball in the mouth, even if it is
swallowed, unless it causes choking. Mothballs have an irritating smell, which
usually keeps people away from them.

More severe symptoms may occur if someone swallows the product on purpose,
since larger amounts are usually swallowed.

## References

Dubey D, Sharma VD, Pass SE, Sawhney A, StÃ¼ve O. Para-dichlorobenzene
toxicity - a review of potential neurotoxic manifestations. _Ther Adv Neurol
Disord_. 2014;7(3):177-187. PMID: 24790648
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24790648.

Kim HK. Camphor and moth repellents. In: Hoffman RS, Howland MA, Lewin NA,
Nelson LS, Goldfrank LR, Flomenbaum NE, eds. _Goldfrank's Toxicologic
Emergencies_. 10th ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill; 2015:chap 105.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

