Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003358.htm    
                                Description: Serum cholinesterase is a blood test that looks at levels of 2 substances that help the nervous system work properly. They are called acetylcholinesterase and pseudocholinesterase. Your nerves need these    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholinesterase - blood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003358.htm

# Cholinesterase - blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Serum cholinesterase is a blood test that looks at levels of 2 substances that
help the nervous system work properly. They are called acetylcholinesterase
and pseudocholinesterase. Your nerves need these substances to send signals.

Acetylcholinesterase is found in nerve tissue and red blood cells.
Pseudocholinesterase is found primarily in the liver.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed to prepare for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order this test if you may have been exposed to
chemicals called organophosphates. These chemicals are used in pesticides.
This test can help determine your risk of poisoning.

Less often, this test may be done:

    * To diagnose liver disease
    * Before you receive anesthesia with succinylcholine, which may be given before certain procedures or treatments, including electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)

## Normal Results

Typically, normal pseudocholinesterase values range between 8 and 18 units per
milliliter (U/mL) or 8 and 18 kilounits per liter (kU/L).

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Decreased pseudocholinesterase levels may be due to:

    * Chronic infection
    * Chronic malnutrition
    * Heart attack
    * Liver damage
    * Metastasis
    * Obstructive jaundice
    * Poisoning from organophosphates (chemicals found in some pesticides)
    * Inflammation that accompanies some diseases

Smaller decreases may be due to:

    * Pregnancy
    * Use of birth control pills 

## Alternative Names

Acetylcholinesterase; RBC (or erythrocyte) cholinesterase;
Pseudocholinesterase; Plasma cholinesterase; Butyrylcholinesterase; Serum
cholinesterase

## Images

    * ![Cholinestrase test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9878t.jpg)Cholinestrase test

## References

Aminoff MJ, So YT. Effects of toxins and physical agents on the nervous
system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chapÂ 86.

Nelson LS, Ford MD. Acute poisoning. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

