Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002837.htm    
                                Description: Diazinon is an insecticide, a product used to kill or control bugs. Poisoning can occur if you swallow diazinon.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diazinon poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002837.htm

# Diazinon poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diazinon is an insecticide, a product used to kill or control bugs. Poisoning
can occur if you swallow diazinon.

This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of
an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local
emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at
1-800-222-1222.

For information on other insecticide poisonings, see Insecticides.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Diazinon is the poisonous ingredient in these products.

## Where Found

Diazinon is an ingredient found in some insecticides. In 2004, the FDA banned
the sale of household products containing diazinon.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of diazinon poisoning in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Chest tightness
    * Difficulty breathing
    * No breathing 

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Increased urination
    * Inability to control urine flow (incontinence)

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Increased salivation
    * Increased tears in the eyes
    * Small or dilated pupils that do not react to light 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Low or high blood pressure
    * Slow or rapid heart rate
    * Weakness 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Agitation
    * Anxiety
    * Coma
    * Confusion
    * Convulsions
    * Dizziness
    * Headache 
    * Muscle Twitching

SKIN

    * Blue lips and fingernails
    * Sweating 

STOMACH AND GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Diarrhea
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Home Care

Call the poison control center for appropriate treatment instructions. If the
insecticide is on the skin, wash the area thoroughly for at least 15 minutes.

Throw away all contaminated clothing. Follow instructions from the appropriate
agencies for getting rid of hazardous waste. Wear protective gloves when
touching contaminated clothing.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

People who have been poisoned by diazinon will likely be treated by first
responders (firefighters, paramedics) who arrive when you call your local
emergency number. These responders will decontaminate the person by removing
the person's clothes and washing them down with water. The responders will
wear protective gear. If the person is not decontaminated before getting to
the hospital, emergency room personnel will decontaminate the person and
provide other treatment.

The health care providers at the hospital will measure and monitor the
person's vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood
pressure. The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT (computerized tomography) scan (advanced brain imaging)
    * ECG (electrocardiogram or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (through a vein)
    * Medicines to reverse the effects of the poison
    * Tube placed down the nose and into the stomach (sometimes)
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation) and eyes, perhaps every few hours for several days 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who continue to improve over the first 4 to 6 hours after receiving
medical treatment usually recover. Prolonged treatment often is needed to
reverse the poisoning. This may include staying in the hospital intensive care
unit and getting long-term therapy. Some effects of the poison may last for
weeks or months, or even longer.

Keep all chemicals, cleaners, and industrial products in their original
containers and marked as poison, and out of the reach of children. This will
reduce the risk of poisoning and overdose.

## Alternative Names

Bazinon poisoning; Diazol poisoning; Gardentox poisoning; Knox-Out poisoning;
Spectracide poisoning

## References

Tekulve K, Tormoehlen LM, Walsh L. Poisoning and drug-induced neurologic
diseases. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's
Pediatric Neurology_. 6th ed. Elsevier; 2017:chap 156.

Welker K, Thompson TM. Pesticides. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

