Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002430.htm    
                                Description: Pesticides are pest-killing substances that help protect plants against molds, fungi, rodents, noxious weeds, and insects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pesticides

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002430.htm

# Pesticides

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pesticides are pest-killing substances that help protect plants against molds,
fungi, rodents, noxious weeds, and insects.

Pesticides help prevent crop loss and, potentially, human disease.

According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, there are
currently more than 865 registered pesticides.

Human-made pesticides are regulated by the United States Department of
Agriculture. This agency determines how pesticides are applied during farming
and how much pesticide residue can remain in foods sold in stores.

Exposure to pesticides can happen in the workplace, through foods that are
eaten, and in the home or garden.

## Side Effects

For those not exposed to pesticides at work, the risks of exposure from eating
nonorganic foods or using pesticides around the home and garden is not clear.
To date, research has not been able to prove or disprove claims that organic
food is safer than food grown using pesticides.

FOOD AND PESTICIDES

To help protect yourself and your family from pesticides on nonorganic fruits
and vegetables, discard the outer leaves of leafy vegetables and then rinse
the vegetables well with tap water. Peel hard-skinned produce, or rinse it
with lots of warm water mixed with salt and lemon juice or vinegar.

Organic growers do not use pesticides on their fruits and vegetables.

HOME SAFETY AND PESTICIDES

When using pesticides at home:

    * DO NOT eat, drink, or smoke while using pesticides.
    * DO NOT mix pesticides.
    * DO NOT set traps or place bait in areas where children or pets have access.
    * DO NOT stock up on pesticides, buy only as much as you need.
    * Read the manufacturer's instructions and only use as much of the product as directed, in the manner directed.
    * Store pesticides in the original container with the lid firmly sealed, out of the reach of children.
    * Wear any protective clothing, such as rubber gloves, specified by the manufacturer. 

When using pesticides indoors:

    * DO NOT apply pesticide sprays to items or areas touched by family members, such as furniture.
    * Leave the room while the pesticide takes effect. Open the windows to clear the air when you return.
    * Remove or cover food, cooking utensils, and personal items from the area being treated, then clean kitchen surfaces well before preparing food.
    * When using baits, clear away all other food debris and scraps to ensure the pests are drawn to the bait. 

When using pesticides outdoors:

    * Close all doors and windows before using the pesticide.
    * Cover fish ponds, barbecues, and vegetable gardens, and relocate pets and their bedding before using pesticides.
    * DO NOT use pesticides outdoors on rainy or windy days.
    * DO NOT water your garden after using a pesticide. Check the manufacturer's instructions for how long to wait.
    * Tell your neighbors if you use any outdoor pesticides. 

To reduce the need for pesticides to eliminate rodents, flies, mosquitoes,
fleas, or cockroaches in and around your home:

    * DO NOT place food scraps in the garden for birds, raccoons, or possums. Throw out any food left in indoor and outdoor pet bowls. Remove fallen fruit from any fruit trees.
    * DO NOT place piles of wood chips or mulch near your house.
    * Drain any puddles of water as soon as possible, change birdbath water at least weekly, and run swimming pool filter at least a few hours each day.
    * Keep gutters free of leaves and other debris that can collect water.
    * Keep potential nesting places, such as wood and trash piles, off the ground.
    * Close outdoor trash bins and compost containers securely.
    * Remove any standing water in the house (base of shower, dishes left in sinks).
    * Seal cracks and crevices where cockroaches may enter the house.
    * Wash pets and their bedding regularly and see your veterinarian for treatment options. 

People who handle or are otherwise exposed to pesticides at work should
carefully clean any residue from their skin and remove their clothes and shoes
before entering the home or having contact with family members.

DO NOT buy illegal pesticides.

## Alternative Names

Pesticides and food

## Images

    * ![Pesticide risks around the home](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9458t.jpg)Pesticide risks around the home

## References

Brenner GM, Stevens CW. Toxicology and the treatment of poisoning. In: Brenner
GM, Stevens CW, eds. _Brenner and Stevens' Pharmacology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Heindel JJ, Zoeller RT. Endocrine-disrupting chemicals and human disease. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 153.

Welker K, Thompson TM. Pesticides. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, et al, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_.
9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services / Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

