Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002763.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses the harmful effects from breathing in or swallowing bug spray (repellent).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bug spray poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002763.htm

# Bug spray poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses the harmful effects from breathing in or swallowing bug
spray (repellent).

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Most bug repellents contain DEET (N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide) as their active
ingredient. DEET is one of the few insect sprays that works to repel bugs. It
is recommended for preventing diseases that mosquitos spread. Some of these
are malaria, dengue fever, and West Nile virus.

Other less effective bug sprays contain pyrethrins. Pyrethrins are a pesticide
made from the chrysanthemum flower. It is generally considered nonpoisonous,
but it can cause breathing problems if you breathe in large amounts.

## Where Found

Bug sprays are sold under various brand names.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of using bug spray vary, depending on what type of spray it is.

Symptoms of swallowing sprays that contain pyrethrins are:

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Coughing
    * Loss of alertness (stupor), from the blood oxygen level being out of balance
    * Tremors (if a large amount is swallowed)
    * Seizures (if a large amount is swallowed)
    * Upset stomach
    * Vomiting 

Below are symptoms of using sprays that contain DEET in different parts of the
body.

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Temporary burning and redness, if DEET is sprayed into these parts of the body. Washing the area will usually make the symptoms go away. Burns to the eye may require medicine.

HEART AND BLOOD (IF A LARGE AMOUNT OF DEET IS SWALLOWED)

    * Low blood pressure
    * Very slow heartbeat 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Insomnia and mood changes. These symptoms may occur with long-term use of large amounts of DEET (over 50% concentration).
    * Disorientation.
    * Clumsiness when walking.
    * Seizures.
    * Coma.
    * Death.
    * DEET is especially dangerous for small children. Seizures may occur in small children who regularly have DEET on their skin for long periods of time. Care should be taken to use only products that have smaller amounts of DEET. These products should be used only for short periods of time. Products containing DEET probably should not be used on infants. 

SKIN

    * Hives or mild skin redness and irritation. These symptoms are usually mild and will go away when the product is washed off the skin.
    * More severe skin reactions that include blistering, burning, and permanent scars of the skin. These symptoms may occur when someone uses products that contain a large amount of DEET over a long period of time. Military personnel or game wardens may use these types of products.

STOMACH AND INTESTINES (If SOMEONE SWALLOWS A SMALL AMOUNT OF DEET)

    * Moderate to severe stomach irritation
    * Nausea and vomitingÂ 

By far, the most serious complication of DEET poisonings is damage to the
nervous system. Death is possible for people who develop nervous system damage
from DEET.

## Home Care

DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison control or a health care
provider tells you to. If the product is on the skin or in the eyes, flush
with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.

If the person swallowed the product, give them water or milk right away,
unless a provider tells you not to. DO NOT give anything to drink if the
person has symptoms that make it hard to swallow. These include vomiting,
convulsions, or a decreased level of alertness. If the person breathed in the
product, move them to fresh air right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed or inhaled
    * Amount swallowed or inhaled

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs, and a breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Bronchoscopy: camera placed down the throat to see burns in the airways and lungs
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (IV)
    * Medicine to treat the effects of the poison
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation), perhaps every few hours for several days

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For sprays that contain pyrethrins:

    * For simple exposure or inhaling small amounts, recovery should occur.
    * Severe breathing difficulty can quickly become life threatening.

For sprays that contain DEET:

When used as directed in small amounts, DEET is not very harmful. It is the
preferred bug repellent for preventing diseases that mosquitos spread. It is
usually the sensible choice to use DEET to repel mosquitos, compared to the
danger of any of those diseases, even for pregnant women.

Serious problems can occur if someone swallows a large amount of a DEET
product that is very strong. How well the person does depends on the amount
they swallowed, how strong it is, and how quickly they receive medical
treatment. Seizures can lead to permanent brain damage and possibly death.

## References

Cannon RD, Ruha A-M. Insecticides, herbicides, and rodenticides. In: Adams JG,
ed. _Emergency Medicine: Clinical Essentials_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 146.

Freedman DO. Protection of travelers. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 323.

Tekulve K, Tormoehlen LM, Walsh L. Poisoning and drug-induced neurological
diseases. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's
Pediatric Neurology: Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Elsevier; 2017:chap
156.

Welker K, Thompson TM. Pesticides. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

## Review Date 10/9/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pesticides](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pesticides_thumb.jpg)Pesticides
_Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

