Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002429.htm    
                                Description: Aflatoxins are toxins produced by a mold (fungus) that grows in nuts, seeds, and legumes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aflatoxin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002429.htm

# Aflatoxin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aflatoxins are toxins produced by a mold (fungus) that grows in nuts, seeds,
and legumes.

## Function

Although aflatoxins are known to cause cancer in animals, the United States
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) allows them at low levels in nuts, seeds,
and legumes because they are considered "unavoidable contaminants."

The FDA believes occasionally eating small amounts of aflatoxin poses little
risk over a lifetime. It is not practical to attempt to remove aflatoxin from
food products in order to make them safer.

## Food Sources

The mold that produces aflatoxin may be found in the following foods:

    * Peanuts and peanut butter
    * Tree nuts such as pecans
    * Corn
    * Wheat
    * Oil seeds such as cottonseed 

## Side Effects

Aflatoxins ingested in large mounts may cause acute liver damage. Chronic
intoxication may lead to weight gain or weight loss, loss of appetite, or
infertility in men.

## Recommendations

To help minimize risk, the FDA tests foods that may contain aflatoxin. Peanuts
and peanut butter are some of the most rigorously tested products because they
often contain aflatoxins and are widely eaten.

You can reduce aflatoxin intake by:

    * Buying only major brands of nuts and nut butters
    * Discarding any nuts that look moldy, discolored, or shriveled 

## References

Haschek WM, Voss KA. Mycotoxins. In: Haschek WM, Rousseaux CG, Wallig MA, eds.
_Haschek and Rousseaux's Handbook of Toxicologic Pathology_. 3rd ed. Waltham,
MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2013:chap 39.

Murray PR, Rosenthal KS, Pfaller MA. Mycotoxins and mycotoxicoses. In: Murray
PR, Rosenthal KS, Pfaller MA, eds. _Medical Microbiology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 67.

National Cancer Institute website. Aflatoxins. www.cancer.gov/about-
cancer/causes-prevention/risk/substances/aflatoxins. Updated December 28,
2018. Accessed January 9, 2019.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Food Safety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodSafety_thumb.jpg)Food Safety
_Read more_

![Molds](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Molds_thumb.jpg)Molds _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

