Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000109.htm    
                                Description: Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is inflammation of the lungs due to breathing in a foreign substance, usually certain types of dust, fungus, or molds.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypersensitivity pneumonitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000109.htm

# Hypersensitivity pneumonitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is inflammation of the lungs due to breathing in
a foreign substance, usually certain types of dust, fungus, or molds.

## Causes

Hypersensitivity pneumonitis usually occurs in people who work in places where
there are high levels of organic dusts, fungus, or molds.

Long-term exposure can lead to lung inflammation and acute lung disease. Over
time, the acute condition turns into long-lasting (chronic) lung disease.

Hypersensitivity pneumonitis may also be caused by fungi or bacteria in
humidifiers, heating systems, and air conditioners found in homes and offices.
Exposure to certain chemicals, such as isocyanates or acid anhydrides, can
also lead to hypersensitivity pneumonitis.

Examples of hypersensitivity pneumonitis include:

 **Bird fancier's lung:** This is the most common type of hypersensitivity
pneumonitis. It is caused by repeated or intense exposure to proteins found in
the feathers or droppings of many species of birds.

 **Farmer's lung:** This type of hypersensitivity pneumonitisÂ is caused by
exposure to dust from moldy hay, straw, and grain.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis often occur 4 to 6 hours after
you have left the area where the offending substance is found. This makes it
difficult to find a connection between your activity and the disease. Symptoms
might resolve before you go back to the area where you encountered the
substance. In the chronic phase of the condition, the symptoms are more
constant and are less affected by exposure to the substance.

Symptoms may include:

    * Chills
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * Malaise (feeling ill)
    * Shortness of breath

Symptoms of chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis may include:

    * Breathlessness, especially with activity
    * Cough, often dry
    * Loss of appetite
    * Unintentional weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms.

Your provider may hear abnormal lung sounds called crackles (rales) when
listening to your chest with a stethoscope.

Lung changes due to chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis may be seen on a
chest x-ray. Other tests may include:

    * Aspergillosis precipitin blood test to check if you've been exposed to the aspergillus fungus
    * Bronchoscopy with washings, biopsy, and bronchoalveolar lavage
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Hypersensitivity pneumonitis antibody blood test
    * Krebs von den Lungen-6 assay (KL-6) blood test
    * Pulmonary function tests
    * Surgical lung biopsy

## Treatment

First, theÂ offending substance must be identified. Treatment involves
avoiding this substance in the future. Some people may need to change jobs if
they cannot avoid the substance at work.

If you have a chronic form of this disease, yourÂ doctor may recommend that
you take glucocorticoids (anti-inflammatory medicines). Sometimes, treatments
used for asthma can help people with hypersensitivity pneumonitis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most symptoms go away when you avoid or limit your exposure to the material
that caused the problem.Â If prevention is made in the acute stage, the
outlook is good. When it reaches the chronic stage, the disease might continue
to progress, even if the offending substance is avoided.

## Possible Complications

The chronic form of this disease may lead to pulmonary fibrosis. This isÂ a
scarring of the lung tissue that often is not reversible. Eventually, end-
stage lung disease and respiratory failure can occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis.

## Prevention

The chronic form can be prevented by avoiding the material that causes the
lung inflammation.

## Alternative Names

Extrinsic allergic alveolitis; Farmer's lung; Mushroom picker's disease;
Humidifier or air-conditioner lung; Bird breeder's or bird fancier's lung

## Patient Instructions

    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Bronchoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23232t.jpg)Bronchoscopy
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Patterson KC, Rose CS. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

Tarlo SM. Occupational lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 87.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![Molds](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Molds_thumb.jpg)Molds _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

