Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000026.htm    
                                Description: Radiation sickness is illness and symptoms resulting from excessive exposure to ionizing radiation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radiation sickness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000026.htm

# Radiation sickness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Radiation sickness is illness and symptoms resulting from excessive exposure
to ionizing radiation.

There are two main types of radiation: nonionizing and ionizing.

    * Nonionizing radiation comes in the form of light, radio waves, microwaves and radar. These forms usually don't cause tissue damage.
    * Ionizing radiation causes immediate effects on human tissue. X-rays, gamma rays, and particle bombardment (neutron beam, electron beam, protons, mesons, and others) give off ionizing radiation. This type of radiation is used for medical testing and treatment. It is also used in industrial and manufacturing purposes, weapons and weapons development, and more.

## Considerations

Radiation sickness results when humans (or other animals) are exposed to very
large doses of ionizing radiation.

Radiation exposure can occur as a single large exposure (acute). Or it can
occur as a series of small exposures spread over time (chronic). Exposure may
be accidental or intentional (as in radiation therapy for disease treatment).

Radiation sickness is generally associated with acute exposure and has a
characteristic set of symptoms that appear in an orderly fashion. Chronic
exposure is usually associated with delayed medical problems such as cancer
and premature aging, which may happen over a long period of time.

The risk for cancer depends on the dose and begins to build up, even with very
low doses. There is no "minimum threshold."

Exposure from x-rays or gamma rays is measured in units of roentgens. For
example:

    * Total body exposure of 100 roentgens/rad or 1 Gray unit (Gy) causes radiation sickness.
    * Total body exposure of 400 roentgens/rad (or 4 Gy) causes radiation sickness and death in half of the individuals who are exposed. Without medical treatment, nearly everyone who receives more than this amount of radiation will die within 30 days.
    * 100,000 roentgens/rad (1,000 Gy) causes almost immediate unconsciousness and death within an hour. 

The severity of symptoms and illness (acute radiation sickness) depends on the
type and amount of radiation, how long you were exposed, and which part of the
body was exposed. Symptoms of radiation sickness may occur right after
exposure, or over the next few days, weeks, or months. Bone marrow and the
gastrointestinal tract are especially sensitive to radiation injury. Children
and babies still in the womb are more likely to be severely injured by
radiation.

Because it is difficult to determine the amount of radiation exposure from
nuclear accidents, the best signs of the severity of the exposure are: the
length of time between the exposure and the onset of symptoms, the severity of
symptoms, and severity of changes in white blood cells. If a person vomits
less than an hour after being exposed, that usually means the radiation dose
received is very high and death may be expected.

Children who receive radiation treatments or who are accidentally exposed to
radiation will be treated based on their symptoms and their blood cell counts.
Frequent blood studies are necessary and require a small puncture through the
skin into a vein to obtain blood samples.

## Causes

Causes include:

    * Accidental exposure to high doses of radiation, such as radiation from a nuclear power plant accident.
    * Exposure to excessive radiation for medical treatments.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of radiation sickness may include:

    * Weakness, fatigue, fainting, confusion  

    * Bleeding from the nose, mouth, gums, and rectum
    * Bruising, skin burns, open sores on the skin, sloughing of skin
    * Dehydration
    * Diarrhea, bloody stool
    * Fever
    * Hair loss
    * Inflammation of exposed areas (redness, tenderness, swelling, bleeding)
    * Nausea and vomiting, including vomiting of blood
    * Ulcers (sores) in the mouth, esophagus (food pipe), stomach or intestines

Your health care provider will advise you how best to treat these symptoms.
Medicines may be prescribed to help reduce nausea, vomiting, and pain. Blood
transfusions may be given for anemiaÂ (low counts of healthy red blood cells).
Antibiotics are used to prevent or fight infections.

## First Aid

Giving first aid to radiation victims may expose rescue personnel to radiation
unless they are properly protected. Victims must be decontaminated so that
they do not cause radiation injury to others.

    * Check the person's breathing and pulse.
    * Start CPR, if necessary.
    * Remove the person's clothing and place the items in a sealed container. This stops ongoing contamination.
    * Vigorously wash the victim with soap and water.
    * Dry the victim and wrap with a soft, clean blanket.
    * Call for emergency medical help or take the person to nearest emergency medical facility if you can do so safely.
    * Report the exposure to emergency officials.

If symptoms occur during or after medical radiation treatments:

    * Tell the provider or seek medical treatment right away.
    * Handle affected areas gently.
    * Treat symptoms or illnesses as recommended by the provider.

## DO NOT

    * DO NOT remain in the area where exposure occurred.
    * DO NOT apply ointments to burned areas.
    * DO NOT remain in contaminated clothing.
    * DO NOT hesitate to seek emergency medical treatment.

## Prevention

Preventive measures include:

    * Avoid unnecessary exposure to radiation, including unnecessary CT scans and x-rays.
    * People working in radiation hazard areas should wear badges to measure their exposure level.
    * Protective shields should always be placed over the parts of the body not being treated or studied during x-ray imaging tests or radiation therapy.

## Alternative Names

Radiation poisoning; Radiation injury; Rad poisoning

## Images

    * ![Radiation therapy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9805t.jpg)Radiation therapy

## References

Hryhorczuk D, Theobald JL. Radiation injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 138.

Sundaram T. Radiation dose and safety considerations in imaging. In: Torigian
DA, Ramchandani P, eds. _Radiology Secrets Plus._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Radiation
Exposure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RadiationExposure_thumb.jpg)Radiation
Exposure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

