Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001981.htm    
                                Description: This article explains safe ways to prepare and store food to prevent food poisoning. It includes tips about what foods to avoid, eating out, and traveling.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Food poisoning prevention

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001981.htm

# Food poisoning prevention

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article explains safe ways to prepare and store food to prevent food
poisoning. It includes tips about what foods to avoid, eating out, and
traveling.

TIPS FOR COOKING OR PREPARING FOOD:

    * Carefully wash your hands before preparing or serving food.
    * Cook eggs until they are solid, not runny.
    * DO NOT eat raw ground beef, chicken, eggs, or fish.
    * Heat all casseroles to 165Â°F (73.9Â°C).
    * Hotdogs and luncheon meats should be heated to steaming.
    * If you take care of young children, wash your hands often and dispose of diapers carefully so bacteria do not spread to food surfaces where food is prepared.
    * Use only clean dishes and utensils.
    * Use a thermometer when cooking beef to at least 160Â°F (71.1Â°C), poultry to at least 180Â°F (82.2Â°C), or fish to at least 140Â°F(60Â°C).

TIPS FOR STORING FOOD:

    * DO NOT use foods that have an unusual odor or spoiled taste.
    * DO NOT place cooked meat or fish back onto the same plate or container that held the raw meat, unless the container has been thoroughly washed.
    * DO NOT use outdated foods, packaged foods with broken seals, or cans that are bulging or dented.
    * If you can your own foods at home, be sure to follow proper canning techniques to prevent botulism.
    * Keep the refrigerator set to 40Â°F (4.4Â°C) and your freezer at or below 0Â°F (-17.7Â°C).
    * Promptly refrigerate any food you will not be eating. 

MORE TIPS FOR PREVENTING FOOD POISONING:

    * All milk, yogurt, cheese, and other dairy products should have the word "Pasteurized" on the container.
    * DO NOT eat foods that may contain raw eggs (such as Caesar salad dressing, raw cookie dough, eggnog, and hollandaise sauce).
    * DO NOT eat raw honey, only honey that has been heat treated.
    * NEVER give honey to children under 1 year of age.
    * DO NOT eat soft cheeses (such as queso blanco fresco).
    * DO NOT eat raw vegetable sprouts (such as alfalfa).
    * DO NOT eat shellfish that has been exposed to red tide.
    * Wash all raw fruits, vegetables, and herbs with cold running water. 

TIPS FOR EATING OUT SAFELY:

    * Ask if all fruit juices have been pasteurized.
    * Be careful at salad bars, buffets, sidewalk vendors, potluck meals, and delicatessens. Make sure cold foods are kept cold and hot foods are kept hot.
    * Use only salad dressings, sauces, and salsas that come in single-serving packages. 

TIPS FOR TRAVELING WHERE CONTAMINATION IS COMMON:

    * DO NOT eat raw vegetables or unpeeled fruit.
    * DO NOT add ice to your drinks unless you know it was made with clean or boiled water.
    * Drink only boiled water.
    * Eat only hot, freshly cooked food. 

If you become sick after eating, and other people you know may have eaten the
same food, let them know you got sick. If you think the food was contaminated
when you bought it from a store or restaurant, tell the store or restaurant
and your local health department.

For more detailed information please see Food - hygiene and sanitation or the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Food Safety and Inspection
Service website -- www.fsis.usda.gov/wps/portal/fsis/home.

## References

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

