Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002851.htm    
                                Description: This article describes a group of different conditions caused by eating contaminated fish and seafood. The most common of these are ciguatera poisoning, scombroid poisoning, and various shellfish poisonings.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Poisoning - fish and shellfish

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002851.htm

# Poisoning - fish and shellfish

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes a group of different conditions caused by eating
contaminated fish and seafood. The most common of these are ciguatera
poisoning, scombroid poisoning, and various shellfish poisonings.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

In ciguatera poisoning, the poisonous ingredient is ciguatoxin. This is a
poison made in small amounts by certain algae and algae-like organisms called
dinoflagellates. Small fish that eat the algae become contaminated. If larger
fish eat a lot of the smaller, contaminated fish, the poison can build up to a
dangerous level, which can make you sick if you eat the fish. Ciguatoxin is
"heat-stable." That means it does not matter how well you cook your fish, if
the fish is contaminated, you will become poisoned.

In scombroid poisoning, the poisonous ingredient is a combination of histamine
and similar substances. After the fish dies, bacteria create large amounts of
the toxin if the fish is not immediately refrigerated or frozen.

In shellfish poisoning, the poisonous ingredients are toxins made by algae-
like organisms called dinoflagellates, which build up in some types of
seafood. There are many different types of shellfish poisoning. The most well-
known types are paralytic shellfish poisoning, neurotoxic shellfish poisoning,
and amnesic shellfish poisoning.

## Where Found

Ciguatera poisoning normally occurs in larger fish from warm tropical waters.
The most popular types of these fish used for food include sea bass, grouper,
and red snapper. In the United States, the waters around Florida and Hawaii
are most likely to have contaminated fish. Worldwide, ciguatera fish poisoning
is the most common type of poisoning from marine biotoxins. It is a major
public health problem in the Caribbean.

The risk is greatest in the summer months, or any time a large number of algae
are blooming in the ocean, such as during "red tide." A red tide occurs when
there is a rapid increase in the amount of dinoflagellates in the water.
However, thanks to modern transportation, anyone around the world may eat a
fish from contaminated waters.

Scombroid poisoning most often occurs from large, dark meat fish such as tuna,
mackerel, mahi mahi, and albacore. Because this poison develops after a fish
is caught and dies, it does not matter where the fish is caught. The main
factor is how long the fish sits out before being refrigerated or frozen.

Like ciguatera poisoning, most shellfish poisonings occur in warmer waters.
However, poisonings have occurred as far north as Alaska and are common in New
England. Most shellfish poisonings occur during the summer months. You may
have heard the saying "Never eat seafood in months that do not have the letter
R." This includes May through August. Shellfish poisoning occurs in seafood
with two shells, such as clams, oysters, mussels, and sometimes scallops.

Always check with your local health department or fish and wildlife agency if
you have any questions about the safety of eating any food product.

## Symptoms

The harmful substances that cause ciguatera, scombroid, and shellfish
poisonings are heat stable, so no amount of cooking will prevent you from
becoming poisoned if you eat contaminated fish. Symptoms depend on the
specific type of poisoning.

Ciguatera poisoning symptoms can occur 2 to 12 hours after eating the fish.
They include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Diarrhea (severe and watery)
    * Nausea and vomiting

Shortly after these symptoms develop, you will start to have strange
sensations, which may include:

    * A feeling that your teeth are loose and about to fall out
    * Confusing hot and cold temperatures (for instance, you will feel like an ice cube is burning you, while a match is freezing your skin)
    * Headache (probably the most common symptom)
    * Low heart rate and low blood pressure (in very severe cases)
    * Metallic taste in the mouth 

These symptoms may get worse if you drink alcohol with your meal.

Scombroid poisoning symptoms most often occur immediately after eating the
fish. They may include:

    * Breathing problems, including wheezing and chest tightness (in severe cases)
    * Extremely red skin on the face and body
    * Flushing
    * Hives and itching
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Peppery or bitter taste 

Below are other well-known types of seafood poisoning, and their symptoms.

 **Paralytic shellfish poisoning:** About 30 minutes after eating contaminated
seafood, you may have numbness or tingling in your mouth. This sensation may
spread down to your arms and legs. You may become very dizzy, have a headache,
and, in some cases, your arms and legs may become temporarily paralyzed. Some
people may also have nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, although these symptoms
are much less common.

 **Neurotoxic shellfish poisoning:** The symptoms are very similar to those of
ciguatera poisoning. After eating contaminated clams or mussels, you will most
likely experience nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. These symptoms will be
followed soon after by strange sensations that may include numbness or
tingling in your mouth, headache, dizziness, and hot and cold temperature
reversal.

 **Amnesic shellfish poisoning:** This is a strange and rare form of poisoning
that begins with nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. These symptoms are followed
by short-term memory loss, and other less common nervous system symptoms.

## Home Care

Shellfish poisoning may be a medical emergency. A person with serious or
sudden symptoms should immediately be taken to an emergency medical center
right away. You may need to call the local emergency number (such as 911) or
poison control for appropriate treatment information.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of fish eaten
    * Time it was eaten
    * Amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. You can call 24 hours a day, 7
days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

If you have ciguatera poisoning, you may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids by IV (through a vein)
    * Medicines to stop vomiting
    * Medicines to help reduce nervous system symptoms (mannitol)

If you have scombroid poisoning, you may receive:

    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids by IV (through a vein)
    * Medicines to stop vomiting
    * Medicines to treat severe allergic reactions (if needed), including Benadryl

If you have shellfish poisoning, you may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids by IV (through a vein)
    * Medicines to stop vomiting

If shellfish poisoning causes paralysis, you may have to stay in the hospital
until your symptoms improve.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Fish and shellfish poisonings occur on occasion in the United States. You can
protect yourself by avoiding fish and seafood caught in and around the areas
of a known red tide, and by avoiding clams, mussels, and oysters during the
summer months. If you are poisoned, your long-term outcome is usually quite
good.

Scombroid poisoning symptoms usually only last for a few hours after medical
treatment has begun. Ciguatera poisoning and shellfish poisoning symptoms may
last from days to weeks, depending on the severity of the poisoning. Only very
rarely have serious outcomes or death occurred.

There is no way for the person who prepares the food to know that their food
is contaminated. Therefore, it is very important that your health care
provider tell the restaurant their food is contaminated so that they can throw
it away before other people become sick. Your provider should also contact the
Department of Health to make sure that the suppliers providing the
contaminated fish are identified and destroyed.

## Alternative Names

Fish poisoning; Dinoflagellate poisoning; Seafood contamination; Paralytic
shellfish poisoning; Ciguatera poisoning

## References

Jong EC. Fish and shellfish poisoning: toxic syndromes. In: Sandford CA,
Pottinger PS, Jong EC, eds. _The Travel and Tropical Medicine Manual_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Lazarciuc N. Diarrhea. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Morris JG. Human illness associated with harmful algal blooms. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R. Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Disease, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 286.

Ravindran ADK, Viswanathan KN. Foodborne illnesses. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel
DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:540-550.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

