Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001150.htm    
                                Description: Gastritis occurs when the lining of the stomach becomes inflamed or swollen.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001150.htm

# Gastritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastritis occurs when the lining of the stomach becomes inflamed or swollen.

Gastritis can last for only a short time (acute gastritis). It may also linger
for months to years (chronic gastritis).

## Causes

The most common causes of gastritis are:

    * Certain medicines, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen and other similar drugs
    * Heavy alcohol drinking
    * Infection of the stomach with a bacteria called _Helicobacter pylori_

Less common causes are:

    * Autoimmune disorders (such as pernicious anemia)
    * Backflow of bile into the stomach (bile reflux)
    * Cocaine abuse
    * Eating or drinking caustic or corrosive substances (such as poisons)
    * Extreme stress
    * Viral infection, such as cytomegalovirus and herpes simplex virus (more often occurs in people with a weak immune system) 

Trauma or a severe, sudden illness such as major surgery, kidney failure, or
being placed on a breathing machine may cause gastritis.

## Symptoms

Many people with gastritis do not have any symptoms.

Symptoms you may notice are:

    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pain in the upper part of the belly or abdomen 

If gastritis is causing bleeding from the lining of the stomach, symptoms may
include:

    * Black stools
    * Vomiting blood or coffee-ground like material 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be needed are:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) to check for anemia or low blood count
    * Examination of the stomach with an endoscope (esophagogastroduodenoscopy or EGD) with biopsy of stomach lining
    *  _H pylori_ tests (breath test or stool test)
    * Stool test to check for small amounts of blood in the stools, which may be a sign of bleeding in the stomach

## Treatment

Treatment depends on what is causing the problem. Some of the causes will go
away over time.

You may need to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or other medicines
that may be causing gastritis. Always talk to your health care provider before
stopping any medicine.

You may use other over-the-counter and prescription drugs that decrease the
amount of acid in the stomach, such as:

    * Antacids
    * H2 antagonists: famotidine (Pepsid), cimetidine (Tagamet), ranitidine (Zantac), and nizatidine (Axid)
    * Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs): omeprazole (Prilosec), esomeprazole (Nexium), iansoprazole (Prevacid), rabeprazole (AcipHex), and pantoprazole (Protonix) 

Antibiotics may be used to treat chronic gastritis caused by infection with
_Helicobacter pylori_ bacteria.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause, but is often very good.

## Possible Complications

Blood loss and increased risk for gastric cancer can occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop:

    * Pain in the upper part of the belly or abdomen that does not go away
    * Black or tarry stools
    * Vomiting blood or coffee-ground-like material

## Prevention

Avoid long-term use of substances that can irritate your stomach such as
aspirin, anti-inflammatory drugs, or alcohol.

## Patient Instructions

    * Taking antacids

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Stomach and stomach lining](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8731t.jpg)Stomach and stomach lining

## References

Feldman M, Lee EL. Gastritis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 52.

Kuipers EJ, Blaser MJ. Acid peptic disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 139.

Vincent K. Gastritis and peptic ulcer disease. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP,
eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:204-208.

## Review Date 12/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

