Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000298.htm    
                                Description: Amebiasis is an infection of the intestines. It is caused by the microscopic parasite Entamoeba histolytica.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amebiasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000298.htm

# Amebiasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amebiasis is an infection of the intestines. It is caused by the microscopic
parasite _Entamoeba histolytica_.

## Causes

_E. histolytica_ can live in the large intestine (colon) without causing
damage to the intestine. In some cases, it invades the colon wall, causing
colitis, acute dysentery, or long-term (chronic) diarrhea. The infection can
also spread through the bloodstream to the liver. In rare cases, it can spread
to the lungs, brain, or other organs.

This condition occurs worldwide. It is most common in tropical areas that have
crowded living conditions and poor sanitation. Africa, Mexico, parts of South
America, and India have major health problems due to this condition.

The parasite may spread:

    * Through food or water contaminated with stools
    * Through fertilizer made of human waste
    * From person to person, particularly by contact with the mouth or rectal area of an infected person

Risk factors for severe amebiasis include:

    * Alcohol use
    * Cancer
    * Malnutrition
    * Older or younger age
    * Pregnancy
    * Recent travel to a tropical region
    * Use of corticosteroid medicine to suppress the immune system

In the United States, amebiasis is most common among those who live in
institutions or people who have traveled to an area where amebiasis is common.

## Symptoms

Most people with this infection do not have symptoms. If symptoms occur, they
are seen 7 to 28 days after being exposed to the parasite.

Mild symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Diarrhea: passage of 3 to 8 semiformed stools per day, or passage of soft stools with mucus and occasional blood 
    * Fatigue
    * Excessive gas
    * Rectal pain while having a bowel movement (tenesmus)
    * Unintentional weight loss

Severe symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal tenderness
    * Bloody stools, including passage of liquid stools with streaks of blood, passage of 10 to 20 stools per day 
    * Fever
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. You will be asked about
your medical history, especially if you have recently traveled overseas.

Examination of the abdomen may show liver enlargement or tenderness in the
abdomen.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood test for amebiasis
    * Examination of the inside of the lower large bowel (sigmoidoscopy)
    * Stool test
    * Microscope examination of stool samples, usually with multiple samples over several days

## Treatment

Treatment depends on how severe the infection is. Usually, antibiotics are
prescribed.

If you are vomiting, you may be given medicines through a vein (intravenously)
until you can take them by mouth. Medicines to stop diarrhea are usually not
prescribed, because they can make the condition worse.

After antibiotic treatment, your stool will likely be rechecked to make sure
the infection has been cleared.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome is usually good with treatment. Usually, the illness lasts about 2
weeks, but it can come back if you do not get treated.

## Possible Complications

Complications of amebiasis may include:

    * Liver abscess (collection of pus in the liver)
    * Medicine side effects, including nausea
    * Spread of the parasite through the blood to the liver, lungs, brain, or other organs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have diarrhea that does not go away or
gets worse.

## Prevention

When traveling in countries where sanitation is poor, drink purified or boiled
water. Do not eat uncooked vegetables or unpeeled fruit. Wash your hands after
using the bathroom and before eating.

## Alternative Names

Amebic dysentery; Intestinal amebiasis; Amebic colitis; Diarrhea - amebiasis

## Images

    * ![Amebic brain abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1047t.jpg)Amebic brain abscess
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
    * ![Pyogenic abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18085t.jpg)Pyogenic abscess

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Visceral protista I: rhizopods (amoebae)
and ciliophorans. In: Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human
Parasitology_. 5th ed. London, UK: Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 4.

Petri WA, Lima AAM. Amebiasis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 352.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

