Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001652.htm    
                                Description: Food poisoning occurs when you swallow food or water that contains bacteria, parasites, viruses, or the toxins made by these germs. Most cases are caused by common bacteria such as staphylococcus or E    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Food poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001652.htm

# Food poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Food poisoning occurs when you swallow food or water that contains bacteria,
parasites, viruses, or the toxins made by these germs. Most cases are caused
by common bacteria such as staphylococcus or _E coli._

## Causes

Food poisoning can affect one person or a group of people who all ate the same
food. It is more common after eating at picnics, school cafeterias, large
social functions, or restaurants.

When germs get into the food, it is called contamination. This can happen in
different ways:

    * Meat or poultry can come into contact with bacteria from the intestines of an animal that is being processed.
    * Water that is used during growing or shipping can contain animal or human waste.
    * Food may be handled in an unsafe way during preparation in grocery stores, restaurants, or homes.

Food poisoning can occur after eating or drinking:

    * Any food prepared by someone who does not wash their hands properly
    * Any food prepared using cooking utensils, cutting boards, and other tools that are not fully cleaned
    * Dairy products or food containing mayonnaise (such as coleslaw or potato salad) that have been out of the refrigerator too long
    * Frozen or refrigerated foods that are not stored at the proper temperature or are not reheated to the right temperature
    * Raw fish or oysters
    * Raw fruits or vegetables that have not been washed well
    * Raw vegetables or fruit juices and dairy products (look for the word "pasteurized," which means the food has been treated to prevent contamination)
    * Undercooked meats or eggs
    * Water from a well or stream, or city or town water that has not been treated

Many types of germs and toxins may cause food poisoning, including:

    * Campylobacter enteritis
    * Cholera
    *  _E coli_ enteritis
    * Toxins in spoiled or tainted fish or shellfish
    *  _Staphylococcus aureus_
    * Salmonella
    * Shigella

Infants and older people are at the greatest risk for food poisoning. You are
also at higher risk if:

    * You have a serious medical condition, such as kidney disease, diabetes, cancer, or HIV and/or AIDS.
    * You have a weakened immune system.
    * You travel outside of the United States to areas where you are exposed to germs that cause food poisoning.

Pregnant and breastfeeding women should use extra care to avoid food
poisoning.

## Symptoms

Symptoms from the most common types of food poisoning will often start within
2 to 6 hours of eating the food. That time may be longer or shorter, depending
on the cause of the food poisoning.

![Food poisoning](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19606.jpg)

Possible symptoms include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Diarrhea (may be bloody)
    * Fever and chills
    * Headache
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Weakness (may be serious) 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look for signs of food poisoning. These may
include pain in the stomach and signs your body has too little fluid
(dehydration).

Tests may be done on your stools or the food you have eaten to find out what
type of germ is causing your symptoms. However, tests may not always find the
cause of the diarrhea.

In more serious cases, your provider may order a sigmoidoscopy. This test uses
a thin, hollow tube with a light on the end that is laced in the anus to look
for the source of bleeding or infection.

## Treatment

Most of the time, you will get better in a couple of days. The goal is to ease
symptoms and make sure your body has the proper amount of fluids.

Getting enough fluids and learning what to eat will help keep you comfortable.
You may need to:

    * Manage the diarrhea
    * Control nausea and vomiting
    * Get plenty of rest

You can drink oral rehydration mixtures to replace fluids and minerals lost
through vomiting and diarrhea.

Oral rehydration powder can be purchased from a pharmacy. Be sure to mix the
powder in safe water.

You can make your own mixture by dissolving Â½ teaspoon (tsp) or 3 grams (g)
salt and Â½ tsp (2.3 grams) baking soda and 4 tablespoon (tbsp) or 50 grams of
sugar in 4Â¼ cups (1 liter) water.

If you have diarrhea and are unable to drink or keep down fluids, you may need
fluids given through a vein (by IV). This may be more common in young
children.

If you take diuretics, ask your provider if you need to stop taking the
diuretic while you have diarrhea. Never stop or change medicines before
talking to your provider.

For the most common causes of food poisoning, your provider will NOT prescribe
antibiotics.

You can buy medicines at the drugstore that help slow diarrhea.

    * DO NOT use these medicines without talking to your provider if you have bloody diarrhea, a fever, or the diarrhea is severe.
    * DO NOT give these medicines to children.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people fully recover from the most common types of food poisoning within
12 to 48 hours. Some types of food poisoning can cause serious complications.

Death from food poisoning in people who are otherwise healthy is rare in the
United States.

## Possible Complications

Dehydration is the most common complication. This can occur from any causes of
food poisoning.

Less common, but much more serious complications depend on the bacteria that
are causing the food poisoning. These may include:

    * Arthritis
    * Bleeding problems
    * Damage to the nervous system
    * Kidney problems
    * Swelling or irritation in the tissue around the heart

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Blood or pus in your stools
    * Diarrhea and are unable to drink fluids due to nausea and vomiting
    * A fever above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or your child has a fever above 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) along with diarrhea
    * Signs of dehydration (thirst, dizziness, lightheadedness)
    * Recently traveled to a foreign country and developed diarrhea
    * Diarrhea that has not gotten better in 5 days (2 days for an infant or child), or has gotten worse
    * A child who has been vomiting for more than 12 hours (in a newborn under 3 months you should call as soon as vomiting or diarrhea begins)
    * Food poisoning that is from mushrooms, fish or other seafood, or botulism 

## Prevention

There are many steps that may be taken to prevent food poisoning.

## Patient Instructions

    * Clear liquid diet
    * Full liquid diet
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Food poisoning](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19606t.jpg)Food poisoning
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Mody RK, Griffin PM. Foodborne disease. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 103.

Nguyen T, Akhtar S. Gastroenteritis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 84.

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

