Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007151.htm    
                                Description: The amount of time people spend on cell phones has increased dramatically. Research continues to investigate whether there is a relationship between long-term cell phone use and slow-growing tumors in    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cell phones and cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007151.htm

# Cell phones and cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The amount of time people spend on cell phones has increased dramatically.
Research continues to investigate whether there is a relationship between
long-term cell phone use and slow-growing tumors in the brain or other parts
of the body.

## Information

At this time it is not clear if there is a link between cell phone use and
cancer. Studies that have been conducted have not reached consistent
conclusions. More long-term research is needed.

WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT CELL PHONE USE

Cell phones use low levels of radiofrequency (RF) energy. It is not known
whether RF from cell phones causes health problems, because the studies done
so far have not been in agreement.

The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) have developed guidelines that limit the amount of RF energy
cell phones are allowed to give off.

The RF exposure from cell phones is measured in specific absorption rate
(SAR). The SAR measures the amount of energy absorbed by the body. The SAR
permitted in the United States is 1.6 watts per kilogram (1.6 W/kg).

According to the FCC, this amount is much lower than the level shown to cause
any changes in laboratory animals. Every cell phone manufacturer is required
to report the RF exposure of each of its phone models to the FCC.

CHILDREN AND CELL PHONES

At this time, the effects of cell phone use on children are not clear.
However, scientists do know that children absorb more RF than adults. For this
reason, some agencies and government organizations recommend that children
avoid prolonged use of cell phones.

REDUCING RISKS

Although health problems related to long-term cell phone use are unknown, you
can take steps to limit your potential risk:

    * Keep calls short when using your cell phone.
    * Use an earpiece or the speaker mode when making calls.
    * When not using your cell phone, keep it away from your body, such as in your purse, briefcase, or backpack. Even when a cell phone is not in use, but is still turned on, it continues to give off radiation.
    * Find out how much SAR energy your cell phone gives off. 

## Alternative Names

Cancer and cell phones; Do cell phones cause cancer?

## References

Benson VS, Pirie K, SchÃ¼z J, et al. Mobile phone use and risk of brain
neoplasms and other cancers: prospective study. _Int J Epidemiol_.
2013;42(3):792-802. PMID: 23657200 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23657200.

Federal Communications Commission website. Wireless devices and health
concerns. www.fcc.gov/consumers/guides/wireless-devices-and-health-concerns.
Updated July 3, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Hardell L. World Health Organization, radiofrequency radiation and health - a
hard nut to crack (review). _Int J Oncol_. 2017;51(2):450-413. PMID: 28656257
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28656257.

National Cancer Institute website. Cell phones and cancer risk.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/radiation/cell-phones-fact-
sheet. Updated February 16, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Radiation-emitting products. Reducing
exposure: hands-free kits and other accessories. www.fda.gov/Radiation-
EmittingProducts/RadiationEmittingProductsandProcedures/HomeBusinessandEntertainment/CellPhones/ucm116293.htm.
Updated December 4, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Electromagnetic
Fields](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ElectromagneticFields_thumb.jpg)Electromagnetic
Fields _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

