Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002644.htm    
                                Description: Ethanol poisoning is caused by drinking too much alcohol.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ethanol poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002644.htm

# Ethanol poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ethanol poisoning is caused by drinking too much alcohol.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Ethanol

## Where Found

Alcoholic beverages, including:

    * Beer
    * Gin
    * Vodka
    * Wine
    * Whiskey 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain.
    * Confusion, slurred speech.
    * Internal (stomach and intestinal) bleeding.
    * Slowed breathing. 
    * Stupor (decreased level of alertness), even coma. 
    * Unsteady walking. 
    * Vomiting, sometimes bloody.
    * Chronic alcohol overuse can lead to additional symptoms and multiple organ failure.

## Home Care

If you can wake an adult who has had too much alcohol, move the person to a
comfortable place to sleep off the effects. Make sure the person will not fall
or get hurt.

Place the person on their side in case they throw up (vomit). DO NOT make the
person throw up unless told to do so by a health care professional or Poison
Control.

Check the person frequently to make sure their condition does not get worse.

If the person is not alert (unconscious) or only somewhat alert (semi-
conscious), emergency assistance may be needed. When in doubt, call for
medical help.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the drinks consumed (ingredients and strengths if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The person
may receive:

    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation),and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT (computerized tomography, or advanced imaging) scan, to rule out other problems or complications
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through the vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Survival over 24 hours past the drinking binge usually means the person will
recover.Â A withdrawal syndrome may develop as alcohol levels in the blood
drop, so the person should be observed and kept safe for at least another 24
hours.

## References

Aronson JK. Ethanol (alcohol). In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:179-184.

Nelson ME. Toxic alcohols. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 141.

US National Library of Medicine; Specialized Information Services; Toxicology
Data Network website. Ethanol. toxnet.nlm.nih.gov. Updated December 18, 2018.
Accessed February 14, 2019.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcohol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol_thumb.jpg)Alcohol _Read
more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

