Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003578.htm    
                                Description: A toxicology screen refers to various tests that determine the type and approximate amount of legal and illegal drugs a person has taken.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toxicology screen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003578.htm

# Toxicology screen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A toxicology screen refers to various tests that determine the type and
approximate amount of legal and illegal drugs a person has taken.

## How the Test is Performed

Toxicology screening is most often done using a blood or urine sample.
However, it may be done soon after the person swallowed the medicine, using
stomach contents taken through gastric lavage (stomach pumping) or after
vomiting.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed. If you are able, tell your health care
provider what drugs (including over-the-counter medicines) you have taken,
including when you took them and how much you consumed.

This test is sometimes part of an investigation for drug use or abuse. Special
consents, handling and labeling of specimens, or other procedures may be
required.

## How the Test will Feel

Blood test:

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain,
while others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

Urine test:

A urine test involves normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is often done in emergency medical situations. It can be used to
evaluate possible accidental or intentional overdose or poisoning. It may help
determine the cause of acute drug toxicity, monitor drug dependency, and
determine the presence of substances in the body for medical or legal
purposes.

Additional reasons the test may be performed include:

    * Alcoholism
    * Alcohol withdrawal state
    * Altered mental state
    * Analgesic nephropathy (kidney poisoning)
    * Complicated alcohol abstinence (delirium tremens)
    * Delirium
    * Dementia
    * Drug abuse monitoring
    * Fetal alcohol syndrome
    * Intentional overdose
    * Seizures
    * Stroke caused by cocaine use
    * Suspected sexual assault
    * Unconsciousness 

If the test is used as a drug screen, it must be done within a certain amount
of time after the drug was taken, or while forms of the drug can still be
detected in the body. Examples are below:

    * Alcohol: 3 to 10 hours
    * Amphetamines: 24 to 48 hours
    * Barbiturates: up to 6 weeks
    * Benzodiazepines: up to 6 weeks with high level use
    * Cocaine: 2 to 4 days; up to 10 to 22 days with heavy use
    * Codeine: 1 to 2 days
    * Heroin: 1 to 2 days
    * Hydromorphone: 1 to 2 days
    * Methadone: 2 to 3 days
    * Morphine: 1 to 2 days
    * Phencyclidine (PCP): 1 to 8 days
    * Propoxyphene: 6 to 48 hours
    * Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 6 to 11 weeks with heavy use 

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges for over-the-counter or prescription medicines may vary
slightly among different laboratories. Talk to your provider about the meaning
of your specific test results.

A negative value most often means that alcohol, prescription medicines that
have not been prescribed, and illegal drugs have not been detected.

A blood toxicology screen can determine the presence and level (amount) of a
drug in your body.

Urine sample results are often reported as positive (substance is found) or
negative (no substance is found).

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Elevated levels of alcohol or prescription drugs can be a sign of intentional
or accidental intoxication or overdose.

The presence of illegal drugs or drugs not prescribed for the person indicates
illicit drug use.

Some legal prescription and over the counter medicines may interact with the
testing chemicals and false results in urine tests. Your provider will be
aware of this possibility.

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

Substances that may be detected on a toxicology screen include:

    * Alcohol (ethanol) -- "drinking" alcohol
    * Amphetamines
    * Antidepressants
    * Barbiturates and hypnotics
    * Benzodiazepines
    * Cocaine
    * Flunitrazepam (Rohypnol)
    * Gamma hydroxybutyrate (GHB)
    * Marijuana
    * Narcotics
    * Non-narcotic pain medicines, including acetaminophen and anti-inflammatory drugs
    * Phencyclidine (PCP)
    * Phenothiazines (antipsychotic or tranquilizing medicines)
    * Prescription medicines, any type 

## Alternative Names

Barbiturates - screen; Benzodiazepines - screen; Amphetamines - screen;
Analgesics - screen; Antidepressants - screen; Narcotics - screen;
Phenothiazines - screen; Drug abuse screen; Blood alcohol test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Langman LJ, Bechtel LK, Meier BM, Holstege C. Clinical toxicology. In: Rifai
N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th
ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 41.

Minns AB, Clark RF. Substance abuse. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 140.

Mofenson HC, Caraccio TR, McGuigan M, Greensher J. Medical toxicology. In:
Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019;1273-1325.

Pincus MR, Bluth MH, Abraham NZ. Toxicology and therapeutic drug monitoring.
In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management
by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services / Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Drug Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugAbuse2_thumb.jpg)Drug Use and
Addiction _Read more_

![Drugs and Young
People](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugsandYoungPeople_thumb.jpg)Drugs and
Young People _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

