Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002806.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses the harmful effects from swallowing gasoline or breathing in its fumes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gasoline poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002806.htm

# Gasoline poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses the harmful effects from swallowing gasoline or
breathing in its fumes.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The poisonous ingredients in gasoline are chemicals called hydrocarbons, which
are substances that contain only hydrogen and carbon. Examples are benzene and
methane.

## Where Found

These ingredients are found in gasoline and other liquids, such as kerosene.

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Gasoline poisoning can cause symptoms in various parts of the body:

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Throat swelling 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Pain
    * Vision loss 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood stools
    * Burns of the esophagus (food pipe)
    * Vomiting, possibly with blood 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Collapse
    * Low blood pressure -- develops rapidly 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Convulsions
    * Depression
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness
    * Feeling of being drunk (euphoria)
    * Headache
    * Loss of alertness
    * Staggering
    * Seizures
    * Weakness 

SKIN

    * Burns
    * Irritation 

## Home Care

Get medical help right away. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by poison control or a health care provider.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at
least 15 minutes.

If the chemical was swallowed, immediately give the person water or milk,
unless instructed otherwise by a provider. DO NOT give water or milk if the
person is unconscious (has a decreased level of alertness).

If the person breathed in the poison, immediately move them to fresh air.

## Before Calling Emergency

Get the following information:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Time the gasoline was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs, and a breathing machine (ventilator).
    * Bronchoscopy -- camera placed down the throat to see burns in the airways and lungs.
    * Chest x-ray.
    * ECG (heart tracing).
    * Endoscopy -- camera placed through the mouth to see burns in the esophagus and stomach.
    * Fluids through a vein (IV).
    * Surgical removal of burned skin (skin debridement).
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage).
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation). Perhaps every few hours for several days. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment was received. The faster a person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery.

Swallowing gasoline may cause damage to the linings of the mouth, throat,
esophagus (food pipe), stomach, and intestines. If gasoline gets into the
lungs (aspiration), serious and possibly permanent lung damage can occur.

The harsh taste of gasoline makes it unlikely that large quantities will be
swallowed. However, several cases of poisoning have occurred in people trying
to suck (siphon) gas from an automobile tank using a garden hose or other
tube. This practice is extremely dangerous and is not advised.

## References

Gummin DD. Hydrocarbons. In: Adams JG, ed. _Emergency Medicine_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 152.

Wang GS, Buchanan JA. Hydrocarbons. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 152.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

