Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002658.htm    
                                Description: Iodine is a naturally occurring chemical. Small amounts are needed for good health. However, large doses can cause harm. Children are especially sensitive to the effects of iodine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Iodine poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002658.htm

# Iodine poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Iodine is a naturally occurring chemical. Small amounts are needed for good
health. However, large doses can cause harm. Children are especially sensitive
to the effects of iodine.

NOTE: Iodine is found in certain foods. However, there is normally not enough
iodine in foods to harm the body. This article focusses on poisoning from
exposure to non-food items that contain iodine.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Iodine

## Where Found

Iodine is found in:

    * Amiodarone (Cordarone)
    * Chemicals (catalysts) for photography and engraving
    * Dyes and inks
    * Lugol's solution
    * Pima syrup
    * Potassium iodide
    * Radioactive iodine used for certain medical tests or the treatment of thyroid disease
    * Tincture of iodine

Iodine is also used during the production of methamphetamine.

Note: This list may not be all inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of iodine poisoning include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Coughing 
    * Delirium
    * Diarrhea, sometimes bloody
    * Fever 
    * Gum and tooth soreness
    * Loss of appetite
    * Metallic taste in mouth
    * Mouth and throat pain and burning
    * No urine output
    * Rash
    * Salivation (producing saliva)
    * Seizures
    * Shock
    * Shortness of breath
    * Stupor (decreased level of alertness)
    * Thirst 
    * Vomiting 

## Home Care

Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by Poison Control or a health care professional.

Give the person milk, or cornstarch or flour mixed with water. Continue to
give milk every 15 minutes. DO NOT give these items if the person is having
symptoms (such as vomiting, convulsions, or a decreased level of alertness)
that make it hard to swallow.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful to emergency assistance:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake or alert?)
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The person
may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of iodine swallowed and how
quickly treatment was received. The faster a person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery.

Esophageal stricture (narrowing of the esophagus, the tube that carries food
from the mouth to the stomach) is a possible complication. Long-term effects
of iodine overdose include thyroid gland problems.

## References

Aronson JK. Iodine-containing medicaments. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:298-304.

US National Library of Medicine; Specialized Information Services; Toxicology
Data Network website. Iodine, elemental. toxnet.nlm.nih.gov. Updated November
7, 2006. Accessed February 14, 2019.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

