Link: https://medlineplus.gov/sleepapnea.html    
                                Description: Sleep apnea is a common disorder that causes your breathing to stop or get very shallow while you sleep. Discover sleep apnea symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Sleep Apnea

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/sleepapnea.html

#  Sleep Apnea

Also called: Sleep-disordered breathing

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Sleep apnea is a common disorder that causes your breathing to stop or get
very shallow. Breathing pauses can last from a few seconds to minutes. They
may occur 30 times or more an hour.

The most common type is obstructive sleep apnea. It causes your airway to
collapse or become blocked during sleep. Normal breathing starts again with a
snort or choking sound. People with sleep apnea often snore loudly. However,
not everyone who snores has sleep apnea.

You are more at risk for sleep apnea if you are overweight, male, or have a
family history or small airways. Children with enlarged tonsils or adenoids
may also get it.

Doctors diagnose sleep apnea based on medical and family histories, a physical
exam, and sleep study results.

When your sleep is interrupted throughout the night, you can be drowsy during
the day. People with sleep apnea are at higher risk for car crashes, work-
related accidents, and other medical problems. If you have it, it is important
to get treatment. Lifestyle changes, mouthpieces, surgery, and breathing
devices can treat sleep apnea in many people.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * Sleep Apnea (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Sleep Apnea Information Page ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Struggling to Sleep? Don't Let Apnea Steal Your Sweet Dreams ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Sleep Apnea? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Getting a Diagnosis for Sleep Apnea (American Sleep Apnea Association)
    * Guide to Understanding Your Sleep Study (American Sleep Apnea Association)
    * Sleep Study (Polysomnogram) (Nemours Foundation)
    * What Are Sleep Studies? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Always Tired? You May Have Sleep Apnea (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Machine Cleaning ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * CPAP Machines: Tips for Avoiding 10 Common Problems (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
    * Sleep Apnea and Heart Disease, Stroke (American Heart Association)

## Specifics

    * Central Sleep Apnea - Mayo Clinic (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Obstructive Sleep Apnea ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons)
    * Obstructive Sleep Apnea (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: obstructive sleep apnea ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * CPAP Tips ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Sleep Apnea Syndromes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Photobiomodulation by low-level laser therapy in patients with obstructive sleep apnea:...
    * Article: Association Between Periodontal Disease and Obstructive Sleep Apnea: What the Periodontist...
    * Article: Sleep and its disturbances in neurology.
    * Sleep Apnea -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Sleep Apnea Association
    * Find a Sleep Center Near You (American Academy of Sleep Medicine)
    * National Center on Sleep Disorders Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Apnea of Prematurity (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Sleep Apnea (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Sleep Apnea Detection (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Central sleep apnea (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Nasal CPAP (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Obstructive sleep apnea (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pediatric sleep apnea (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Apnea of prematurity
    * Central sleep apnea
    * Nasal CPAP
    * Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS)
    * Obstructive sleep apnea
    * Pediatric sleep apnea
    * Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP)

## Related Health Topics

    * Breathing Problems
    * Sleep Disorders
    * Snoring

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Sleep Apnea is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Sleep Apnea_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 February 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

