Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002780.htm    
                                Description: Drain opening agents are chemicals used to open clogged drains, often in homes. Drain opening agent poisoning can occur if a child accidentally drinks these chemicals, or if someone splashes the poison    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drain opener poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002780.htm

# Drain opener poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drain opening agents are chemicals used to open clogged drains, often in
homes. Drain opening agent poisoning can occur if a child accidentally drinks
these chemicals, or if someone splashes the poison into the eyes when pouring
it or breathes in the fumes of "foaming" drain openers.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Poisonous ingredients include:

    * Hydrochloric acid
    * Lye (sodium hydroxide or caustic soda)
    * Potassium hydroxide
    * Sulfuric acid 

## Where Found

These chemicals are found in drain cleaners or opener products. These agents
may also be present in other sources.

## Symptoms

Drain opener poisoning can cause symptoms in many parts of the body.

BLOOD

    * Severe change in acid level of blood (pH balance), which leads to damage in all of the body organs 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Burns to the eyes, which may result in permanent vision loss
    * Severe pain in the throat
    * Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue 

GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM

    * Blood in the stool
    * Burns and possible holes in the throat (esophagus)
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Vomiting
    * Vomiting blood

HEART AND CIRCULATORY SYSTEM

    * Collapse
    * Low blood pressure that develops rapidly 

LUNGS AND AIRWAYS

    * Breathing difficulty (from breathing in drain opening agent)
    * Throat swelling (may also cause breathing difficulty) 

SKIN

    * Burns
    * Holes (necrosis) in the skin or tissues underneath
    * Irritation 

## Home Care

Seek medical help RIGHT AWAY. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by poison control or a health care provider.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at
least 15 minutes.

If the chemical was swallowed, immediately give the person water or milk,
unless instructed otherwise by a provider. DO NOT give water or milk if the
person is having symptoms (such as vomiting, convulsions, or a decreased level
of alertness) that make it hard to swallow.

If the person breathed in the poison, immediately moveÂ them to fresh air.

## Before Calling Emergency

Get the following information:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (and ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison centerÂ can be reached directly by calling the national
toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United
States. This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitorÂ the person'sÂ vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Bronchoscopy -- camera down the throat to see burns in the airways and lungs
    * Chest x-ray
    * EKG (heart tracing)
    * Endoscopy -- camera down the throat to see burns in the esophagus and the stomach
    * Fluids through the vein (by IV)
    * Medicines for pain
    * Surgical removal of burned skin (skin debridement)
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation), perhaps every few hours for several days

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How wellÂ a personÂ does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment is received. The faster the person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery.

If this type of poison gets in the eye, it can be very dangerous and difficult
to manage. Loss of vision is common. Swallowing such poisons can have severe
effects on many parts of the body.

Damage continues to occur to the esophagus and stomach for several weeks after
the poison was swallowed.

## Alternative Names

Drain opening agents

## References

Blanc PD. Acute responses to toxic exposures. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 75.

Hoyte C. Caustics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 148.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

