Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002759.htm    
                                Description: Ammonia is a strong, colorless gas. If the gas is dissolved in water, it is called liquid ammonia. Poisoning may occur if you breathe in ammonia. Poisoning may also occur if you swallow or touch products    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ammonia poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002759.htm

# Ammonia poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ammonia is a strong, colorless gas. If the gas is dissolved in water, it is
called liquid ammonia. Poisoning may occur if you breathe in ammonia.
Poisoning may also occur if you swallow or touch products that contain very
large amounts of ammonia.

WARNING: Never mix ammonia with bleach. This causes the release of toxic
chlorine gas, which can be deadly.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The poisonous ingredient is:

    * Ammonia

## Where Found

Ammonia can be found in:

    * Ammonia gas
    * Some household cleaners
    * Some liniments
    * Some fertilizers 

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can affect many parts of the body.

AIRWAYS, LUNGS, AND CHEST

    * Cough
    * Chest pain (severe)
    * Chest tightness
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Rapid breathing
    * Wheezing 

BODY-WIDE SYMPTOMS

    * Fever 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, MOUTH, AND THROAT

    * Tearing and burning of eyes
    * Temporary blindness
    * Throat pain (severe)
    * Mouth pain
    * Lip swelling 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Rapid, weak pulse
    * Collapse and shock 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Confusion
    * Difficulty walking
    * Dizziness
    * Lack of coordination
    * Restlessness
    * Stupor (altered level of consciousness) 

SKIN

    * Bluish-colored lips and fingernails
    * Severe burns if contact is longer than a few minutes 

STOMACH AND GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT

    * Severe stomach pain
    * Vomiting 

## Home Care

DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do so by poison control or a
health care professional. Seek immediate medical help.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at
least 15 minutes.

If the chemical was swallowed, immediately give the person water or milk,
unless told otherwise by a health care provider. DO NOT give water or milk if
the person is having symptoms (such as vomiting, convulsions, or a decreased
level of alertness) that make it hard to swallow.

If the poison was inhaled, immediately move the person to fresh air.

## Before Calling Emergency

Determine the following information:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of product (as well as the ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Blood and urine tests
will be done. The person may receive:

    * Airway and breathing support, including oxygen. In extreme cases, a tube may be passed through the mouth into the lungs to prevent aspiration.Â A breathing machine (ventilator) would then be needed.
    * Bronchoscopy, which involves inserting a camera into the throat, bronchial tubes, and lungs to check for burns in those tissues.
    * Chest x-ray.
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
    * Endoscopy - a camera down the throat to see burns in the esophagus and stomach.
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV).
    * Medicines to treat symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Damage is related to the amount and strength (concentration) of the ammonia.
Most household cleaners are relatively weak and cause little or mild damage.
Industrial strength cleaners can cause severe burns and injury.

Survival past 48 hours most often indicates recovery will occur. Chemical
burns that occurred in the eye frequently heal; however, permanent blindness
may result.

## References

Levine MD. Chemical injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 57.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Nelson LS, Hoffman RS. Inhaled toxins. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 153.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

