Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003882.htm    
                                Description: Gastric suction is a procedure to empty the contents of your stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastric suction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003882.htm

# Gastric suction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastric suction is a procedure to empty the contents of your stomach.

## How the Test is Performed

A tube is inserted through your nose or mouth, down the food pipe (esophagus),
and into the stomach. Your throat may be numbed with medicine to reduce
irritation and gagging caused by the tube.

Stomach contents can be removed using suction right away or after spraying
water through the tube.

## How to Prepare for the Test

In an emergency, such as when a person has swallowed poison or is vomiting
blood, no preparation is needed for gastric suction.

If gastric suction is being done for testing, your health care provider may
ask you not to eat overnight or to stop taking certain medicines.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a gagging sensation as the tube is passed.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to:

    * Remove poisons, harmful materials, or excess medicines from the stomach
    * Clean the stomach before an upper endoscopy (EGD) if you have been vomiting blood
    * Collect stomach acid
    * Relieve pressure if you have a blockage in the intestines 

## Risks

Risks may include:

    * Breathing in contents from the stomach (this is called aspiration)
    * Hole (perforation) in the esophagus
    * Placing the tube into the airway (windpipe) instead of the esophagus
    * Minor bleeding

## Alternative Names

Gastric lavage; Stomach pumping; Nasogastric tube suction; Bowel obstruction -
suction

## Images

    * ![Gastric suction](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8653t.jpg)Gastric suction

## References

Holstege CP, Borek HA. Decontamination of the poisoned patient. In: Roberts
JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 42.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Pasricha PJ. Gastrointestinal endoscopy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 134.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

