Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002510.htm    
                                Description: Nicotine is a bitter-tasting compound that naturally occurs in large amounts in the leaves of tobacco plants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nicotine poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002510.htm

# Nicotine poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nicotine is a bitter-tasting compound that naturally occurs in large amounts
in the leaves of tobacco plants.

Nicotine poisoning results from too much nicotine. Acute nicotine poisoning
usually occurs in young children who accidentally chew on nicotine gum or
patches.

This article is for information only. Do NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Nicotine

## Where Found

Nicotine is found in:

    * Chewing tobacco
    * Cigarettes
    * E-cigarettes
    * Liquid nicotine
    * Nicotine gum (Nicorette)
    * Nicotine patches (Habitrol, Nicoderm)
    * Pipe tobacco
    * Some insecticides
    * Tobacco leaves 

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of nicotine poisoning include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Agitation, restlessness, excitement, or confusion
    * Breathing that may be difficult, rapid, or even stopped
    * Burning sensation in mouth, drooling
    * Seizures
    * Depression
    * Fainting or even coma (lack of responsiveness)
    * Headache
    * Muscle twitching
    * Palpitations (fast and pounding heartbeat often followed by slow heart rate)
    * Vomiting
    * Weakness 

## Home Care

Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by Poison Control or a health care professional.

If the chemical is on the skin, wash with soap and lots of water for at least
15 minutes.

## Before Calling Emergency

Determine the following information:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of product (as well as the ingredients and strength, if known)
    * When it was swallowed or inhaled
    * The amount swallowed or inhaled 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

If possible, take the package the nicotine came in with you to the hospital.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (IV)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, including agitation, rapid heart rate, seizures, and nausea 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment was received. The faster a person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery.

A nicotine overdose may cause seizures or death. However, unless there are
complications, long-term effects from nicotine overdose are uncommon.

## References

Aronson JK. Nicotine and nicotine replacement therapy. In: Aronson JK, ed.
_Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:
pp.151-156.

U.S. National Library of Medicine. Specialized Information Services Toxicology
Data Network website. Nicotine. toxnet.nlm.nih.gov. Updated August 20, 2009.
Accessed January 17, 2019.

Rao RB, Hoffman RS, Erickson TB. Cocaine and other sympathomimetics. In: Walls
RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts
and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 149.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

