Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002570.htm    
                                Description: Zinc is a metal as well as an essential mineral. Your body needs zinc to function properly. If you take a multivitamin, chances are it has zinc in it. In this form, zinc is both necessary and relatively    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Zinc poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002570.htm

# Zinc poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Zinc is a metal as well as an essential mineral. Your body needs zinc to
function properly. If you take a multivitamin, chances are it has zinc in it.
In this form, zinc is both necessary and relatively safe. Zinc can also be
obtained in your diet.

Zinc, however, can be mixed with other materials to make industrial items such
as paint, dyes, and more. These combination substances can be particularly
toxic.

This article discusses poisoning from zinc.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Zinc

## Where Found

Zinc can be found in many things, including:

    * Compounds used to make paint, rubber, dyes, wood preservatives, and ointments
    * Rust prevention coatings
    * Vitamin and mineral supplements
    * Zinc chloride
    * Zinc oxide (relatively nonharmful)
    * Zinc acetate
    * Zinc sulfate
    * Heated or burned galvanized metal (releases zinc fumes)

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Body pain
    * Burning sensations
    * Convulsions
    * Cough
    * Fever and chills
    * Low blood pressure
    * Metallic taste in mouth
    * No urine output
    * Rash
    * Shock, collapse
    * Shortness of breath
    * Vomiting
    * Watery or bloody diarrhea
    * Yellow eyes or yellow skin 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away.

Immediately give the person milk, unless instructed otherwise by a health care
provider.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the product (as well as the ingredients and strength if known)
    * When it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation),and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT (computerized tomography, or advanced imaging) scan
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through the vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Laxative

In serious cases, medicines called chelators, which remove zinc from the
bloodstream may be needed, and the person may need to be hospitalized.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment was received. The faster a person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery. If symptoms are mild, the person will usually
make a full recovery. If the poisoning is severe, death may occur up to a week
after swallowing the poison.

## References

Aronson JK. Zinc. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th
ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:568-572.

US National Library of Medicine; Specialized Information Services; Toxicology
Data Network website. Zinc, elemental. toxnet.nlm.nih.gov. Updated December
20, 2006. Accessed February 14, 2019.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

