Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002833.htm    
                                Description: Lighter fluid is a flammable liquid found in cigarette lighters and other types of lighters. Lighter fluid poisoning occurs when someone swallows this substance.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lighter fluid poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002833.htm

# Lighter fluid poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lighter fluid is a flammable liquid found in cigarette lighters and other
types of lighters. Lighter fluid poisoning occurs when someone swallows this
substance.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The harmful substances in lighter fluids are called hydrocarbons. They
include:

    * Benzene
    * Butane
    * Hexamine
    * Lacolene
    * Naptha
    * Propane

## Where Found

Various lighter fluids contain these substances.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of lighter fluid poisoning in different parts of the body.

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Loss of vision
    * Severe pain in the throat
    * Severe pain or burning in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue 

KIDNEYS AND BLADDER

    * Decreased urine output 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Blood in the stool
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Burns of the food pipe (esophagus)
    * Vomiting
    * Vomiting blood

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Collapse
    * Low blood pressure that develops rapidly 

LUNGS AND AIRWAYS

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Throat swelling (may also cause breathing difficulty) 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)
    * Confusion
    * Dizziness
    * Easily excited
    * Extreme sleepiness
    * Hallucinations
    * Headache
    * Inability to sleep
    * Irritability
    * Lack of desire to do anything
    * Tremor
    * Twitching
    * Uncoordinated movements
    * Staggering 

SKIN

    * Burns
    * Holes in the skin or tissues under the skin
    * Irritation 

## Home Care

Get medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

If the lighter fluid is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with lots of water
for at least 15 minutes.

If the person swallowed the lighter fluid, give them water or milk right away,
if a provider tells you to do so. DO NOT give anything to drink if the person
has symptoms that make it hard to swallow. These include vomiting,
convulsions, or a decreased level of alertness.

If the person breathed in fumes of the lighter fluid, move them to fresh air
right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (and ingredients, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.Â
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Bronchoscopy: camera down the throat to see burns in the airways and lungs
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram), or heart tracing
    * Endoscopy: camera down the throat to see burns in the esophagus and the stomach
    * Medicine to treat symptoms

Treatment may include:

    * Fluids through the vein (by IV)
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation), perhaps every few hours for several days
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage)
    * Surgery to remove burned skin
    * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs, and breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on how severe their poisoning is and how quickly
they receive treatment. The faster medical help is given, the better the
chance for recovery.

Damage can continue to occur for several weeks after swallowing lighter fluid.

## References

Aronson JK. Organic solvents. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:385-389.

Wang GS, Buchanan JA. Hydrocarbons. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 152.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

