Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002867.htm    
                                Description: Elephant ear plants are indoor or outdoor plants with very large, arrow-shaped leaves. Poisoning may occur if you eat parts of this plant.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Elephant ear poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002867.htm

# Elephant ear poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Elephant ear plants are indoor or outdoor plants with very large, arrow-shaped
leaves. Poisoning may occur if you eat parts of this plant.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The harmful substances in elephant ear plants are:

    * Oxalic acid
    * Asparagine, a protein found in this plant

Note: Leaves and stems are the most dangerous when eaten in large amounts.

## Where Found

Elephant ear grows naturally in tropical and subtropical areas. It is also
common in northern climates.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of elephant ear poisoning are:

    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Redness, pain, and burning of the eyes
    * Severe burning in the mouth and throat
    * Swelling of the tongue, mouth, and eyes 

## Home Care

Wipe out the mouth with a cold, wet cloth. Wash off any plant sap on the skin.
Rinse out the eyes.

Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison control or a health care
provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Part of plant swallowed, if known
    * Time swallowed
    * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the plant with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

    * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator), in extreme cases only
    * Fluids through the vein (by IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most symptoms will disappear within several days to a week if treated
correctly.

In rare cases, oxalic acid causes swelling severe enough to block the airways.

## References

Graeme KA. Toxic plant ingestions. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS,
eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 65.

Magill AJ, Hill DR, Solomon T, Ryan ET. Poisonous plants and aquatic animals.
In: Magill AJ, Hill DR, Solomon T, Ryan ET, eds. _Hunter's Tropical Medicine
and Infectious Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap 133.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

