Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002881.htm    
                                Description: Jimsonweed is a tall herb plant. Jimsonweed poisoning occurs when someone sucks the juice or eats the seeds from this plant. You can also be poisoned by drinking tea made from the leaves.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jimsonweed poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002881.htm

# Jimsonweed poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jimsonweed is a tall herb plant. Jimsonweed poisoning occurs when someone
sucks the juice or eats the seeds from this plant. You can also be poisoned by
drinking tea made from the leaves.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Poisonous ingredients include:

    * Atropine
    * Hyoscine (scopolamine)
    * Hyoscyamine
    * Tropane alkaloids 

**Note:** This list may not include all poisonous ingredients.

## Where Found

The poison is found in all parts of the plant, especially the leaves and
seeds.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of jimsonweed poisonings can affect various body systems.

BLADDER AND KIDNEYS

    * Little to no urine production (urine retention)
    * Abdominal pain (from urine retention)

EYES, EARS, NOSE, THROAT, AND MOUTH

    * Blurred vision
    * Dilated pupils
    * Dry mouth

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Nausea and vomiting

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Elevated blood pressure
    * Rapid pulse

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Coma
    * Convulsions
    * Death
    * Delirium
    * Dizziness
    * Hallucinations
    * Headache

SKIN

    * Red skin
    * Hot, dry skin

WHOLE BODY

    * Fever
    * Thirst

## Home Care

Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by poison control or a health care provider.

## Before Calling Emergency

Get the following information:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the plant, if known
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does not need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Breathing support
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids by IV (through the vein)
    * Laxatives
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, including an antidote to the effects of the poison
    * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how quickly
treatment is received. The faster you get medical help, the better the chance
for recovery.

Symptoms last for 1 to 3 days and may require a hospital stay. Death is
unlikely.

DO NOT touch or eat any plant with which you are not familiar. Wash your hands
after working in the garden or walking in the woods.

## Alternative Names

Angel's trumpet; Devil's weed; Thorn apple; Tolguacha; Jamestown weed;
Stinkweed; Datura; Moonflower

## References

Graeme KA. Toxic plant ingestions. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS,
eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 65.

Lim CS, Aks SE. Plants, mushrooms, and herbal medications. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 158.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

