Link: https://medlineplus.gov/smoking.html    
                                Description: There&#39;s no way around it. Smoking is bad for your health. Learn the effects of smoking (how smoking harms nearly every organ) and how to quit.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Smoking

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/smoking.html

#  Smoking

Also called: Cigar smoking, Cigarette smoking, Pipe smoking, Tobacco smoking

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are the health effects of smoking?

There's no way around it; smoking is bad for your health. It harms nearly
every organ of the body, some that you would not expect. Cigarette smoking
causes nearly one in five deaths in the United States. It can also cause many
other cancers and health problems. These include

    * Cancers, including lung and oral cancers
    * Lung diseases, such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
    * Damage to and thickening of blood vessels, which causes high blood pressure
    * Blood clots and stroke
    * Vision problems, such as cataracts and macular degeneration (AMD)

Women who smoke while pregnant have a greater chance of certain pregnancy
problems. Their babies are also at higher risk of dying of sudden infant death
syndrome (SIDS).

Smoking also causes addiction to nicotine, a stimulant drug that is in
tobacco. Nicotine addiction makes it much harder for people to quit smoking.

### What are the health risks of secondhand smoke?

Your smoke is also bad for other people - they breathe in your smoke
secondhand and can get many of the same problems as smokers do. This includes
heart disease and lung cancer. Children exposed to secondhand smoke have a
higher risk of ear infections, colds, pneumonia, bronchitis, and more severe
asthma. Mothers who breathe secondhand smoke while pregnant are more likely to
have preterm labor and babies with low birth weight.

### Are other forms of tobacco also dangerous?

Besides cigarettes, there are several other forms of tobacco. Some people
smoke tobacco in cigars and water pipes (hookahs). These forms of tobacco also
contain harmful chemicals and nicotine. Some cigars contain as much tobacco as
an entire pack of cigarettes.

E-cigarettes often look like cigarettes, but they work differently. They are
battery-operated smoking devices. Using an e-cigarette is called vaping. Not
much is known about the health risks of using them. We do know they contain
nicotine, the same addictive substance in tobacco cigarettes. E-cigarettes
also expose non-smokers to secondhand aerosols (rather than secondhand smoke),
which contain harmful chemicals.

Smokeless tobacco, such as chewing tobacco and snuff, is also bad for your
health. Smokeless tobacco can cause certain cancers, including oral cancer. It
also increases your risk of getting heart disease, gum disease, and oral
lesions.

### Why should I quit?

Remember, there is no safe level of tobacco use. Smoking even just one
cigarette per day over a lifetime can cause smoking-related cancers and
premature death. Quitting smoking can reduce your risk of health problems. The
earlier you quit, the greater the benefit. Some immediate benefits of quitting
include

    * Lower heart rate and blood pressure
    * Less carbon monoxide in the blood (carbon monoxide reduces the blood's ability to carry oxygen)
    * Better circulation
    * Less coughing and wheezing

NIH National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

    * Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Let's Make the Next Generation Tobacco-Free: Your Guide to the 50th Anniversary Surgeon General's Report on Smoking and Health (Department of Health and Human Services) \- PDF
    * Smoking and Tobacco Use: Health Effects (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Tobacco Addiction (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Tobacco and Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Cancer and Tobacco Use (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Cigar Smoking and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Is It True That Smoking Causes Wrinkles? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Nicotine Dependence (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking and Asthma (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking and Bone Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Smoking and Eye Disease (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking and Home Fire Safety (United States Fire Administration)
    * Smoking and Infertility (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking and Your Digestive System ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * What's in a Cigarette? (American Lung Association)

## Specifics

    * Bidis and Kreteks (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Cigars (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * E-Cigarettes: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * E-Cigs, Menthol & Dip ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Hookahs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Light, Low, Mild or Similar Descriptors (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF
    * Low-Yield Cigarettes (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Tobacco Products (Department of Health and Human Services)

## Health Check Tools

    * Quiz: How Strong is Your Nicotine Addiction? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Smoking Habits Quiz (American Cancer Society)

## Statistics and Research

    * Adult Cigarette Smoking in the United States: Current Estimates (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Tobacco Use in Racial and Ethnic Populations (American Lung Association)
    * Tobacco-Related Mortality (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cigarette Smoking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Tobacco Smoking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Tobacco Use Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Water Pipe Smoking ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The toxicity and valorization options of cigarette butts.
    * Article: Update: Interim Guidance for Health Care Professionals Evaluating and Caring for...
    * Article: VpALI-Vaping-related Acute Lung Injury: A New Killer Around the Block.
    * Smoking -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * How Lungs Work (American Lung Association)

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * American Lung Association
    * National Institute on Drug Abuse ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Smoking during Pregnancy (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
    * Stress and Mood ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute, Tobacco Control Research Branch)
    * Tobacco Use and Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Women and Tobacco Use (American Lung Association)

## Patient Handouts

    * Risks of tobacco (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking and asthma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Smoking and COPD (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Smoking.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Risks of tobacco
    * Smoking and asthma
    * Smoking and COPD

## Related Health Topics

    * E-Cigarettes
    * Quitting Smoking
    * Secondhand Smoke
    * Smokeless Tobacco
    * Smoking and Youth

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Smoking is the National Institute
on Drug Abuse

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Smoking_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 19 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

