Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002768.htm    
                                Description: Castor oil is a yellowish liquid often used as a lubricant and in laxatives. This article discusses poisoning from swallowing a large amount (overdose) of castor oil.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Castor oil overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002768.htm

# Castor oil overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Castor oil is a yellowish liquid often used as a lubricant and in laxatives.
This article discusses poisoning from swallowing a large amount (overdose) of
castor oil.

This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of
an actual overdose. If you have an overdose, you should call your local
emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at
1-800-222-1222.

 _Ricinus communis_ (castor oil plant) contain the toxin ricin. Seeds or beans
swallowed whole with the hard outer shell intact typically prevent absorption
of significant toxin. Purified ricin derived from the castor bean is highly
toxic and lethal in small doses.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Large amounts of castor oil can be poisonous.

## Where Found

Castor oil comes from the seeds of the castor oil plant. It can be found in
these products:

    * Castor oil
    * Alphamul
    * Emulsoil
    * Fleet Flavored Castor Oil
    * Laxopol
    * Unisol 

Other products may also contain castor oil.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a castor oil overdose include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Chest pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Dizziness
    * Hallucinations (rare)
    * Fainting
    * Nausea
    * Shortness of breath
    * Skin rash
    * Throat tightness 

## Home Care

Castor oil is not considered very toxic, but allergic reactions are possible.
Call the poison control center for treatment information.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of product (as well as the ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The person
may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * ECG (electrocardiogram or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (through a vein)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Normally, castor oil should cause few problems. Recovery is very likely.

If nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea are not controlled, serious dehydration and
electrolyte (body chemical and mineral) imbalances may occur. These can cause
heart rhythm disturbances.

Keep all chemicals, cleaners, and industrial products in their original
containers and marked as poison, and out of the reach of children. This will
reduce the risk of poisoning and overdose.

## Alternative Names

Alphamul overdose; Emulsoil overdose; Laxopol overdose; Unisol overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Polyoxyl castor oil. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:866-867.

Lim CS, Aks SE. Plants, mushrooms, and herbal medications. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 158.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

