Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007579.htm    
                                Description: Poisoning is caused by exposure to a harmful substance. This can be due to swallowing, injecting, breathing in, or other means. Most poisonings occur by accident.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Poisoning first aid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007579.htm

# Poisoning first aid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Poisoning is caused by exposure to a harmful substance. This can be due to
swallowing, injecting, breathing in, or other means. Most poisonings occur by
accident.

Immediate first aid is very important in a poisoning emergency. The first aid
you give before getting medical help can save a person's life.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Considerations

Millions of poisonings are reported to United States poison control centers
every year. Many result in death.

It is important to note that just because a package does not have a warning
label does not mean a substance is safe. You should consider poisoning if
someone suddenly becomes sick for no apparent reason. Poisoning should also be
considered if the person is found near a furnace, car, fire, or in an area
that is not well ventilated.

Symptoms of poisoning may take time to develop. However, if you think someone
has been poisoned, DO NOT wait for symptoms to develop. Get medical help right
away.

## Causes

Items that can cause poisoning include:

    * Carbon monoxide gas (from furnaces, gas engines, fires, space heaters)
    * Certain foods
    * Chemicals in the workplace
    * Drugs, including over-the-counter and prescription medicines (such as an aspirin overdose) and illicit drugs such as cocaine
    * Household detergents and cleaning products
    * Household and outdoor plants (eating toxic plants)
    * Insecticides
    * Paints 

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary according to the poison, but may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bluish lips
    * Chest pain
    * Confusion
    * Cough
    * Diarrhea
    * Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath
    * Dizziness
    * Double vision
    * Drowsiness
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Heart palpitations
    * Irritability
    * Loss of appetite
    * Loss of bladder control
    * Muscle twitching
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Numbness and tingling
    * Seizures
    * Skin rash or burns
    * Stupor
    * Unconsciousness (coma)
    * Unusual breath odor
    * Weakness

## First Aid

Seek immediate medical help.

For poisoning by swallowing and some inhalations:

Check and monitor the person's airway, breathing, and pulse. If necessary,
begin rescue breathing and CPR.

    1. Try to make sure that the person has indeed been poisoned. It may be hard to tell. Some signs include chemical-smelling breath, burns around the mouth, difficulty breathing, vomiting, or unusual odors on the person. If possible, identify the poison.
    2. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do so by poison control or a health care professional.
    3. If the person vomits, clear the person's airway. Wrap a cloth around your fingers before cleaning out the mouth and throat. If the person has been sick from a plant part, save the vomit. It may help experts identify what medicine can be used to help reverse the poisoning.
    4. If the person starts having convulsions, give convulsion first aid.
    5. Keep the person comfortable. The person should be rolled onto the left side, and remain there while getting or waiting for medical help.
    6. If the poison has spilled on the person's clothes, remove the clothing and flush the skin with water. 
![Check airway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9544.jpg)

For inhalation poisoning:

Call for emergency help. Never attempt to rescue a person without notifying
others first.

If it is safe to do so, rescue the person from the danger of the gas, fumes,
or smoke. Open windows and doors to remove the fumes.

    1. Take several deep breaths of fresh air, and then hold your breath as you go in. Hold a wet cloth over your nose and mouth.
    2. DO NOT light a match or use a lighter because some gases can catch fire.
    3. After rescuing the person from danger, check and monitor the person's airway, breathing, and pulse. If necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.
    4. If necessary, perform first aid for eye injuries or convulsion first aid.
    5. If the person vomits, clear the person's airway. Wrap a cloth around your fingers before cleaning out the mouth and throat.
    6. Even if the person seems perfectly fine, get medical help. 

## DO NOT

**DO NOT:**

    * Give an unconscious person anything by mouth.
    * Induce vomiting unless you are told to do so by the Poison Control Center or a doctor. A strong poison that burns on the way down the throat will also do damage on the way back up.
    * Try to neutralize the poison with lemon juice or vinegar, or any other substance, unless you are told to do so by the Poison Control Center or a doctor.
    * Use any "cure-all" type antidote.
    * Wait for symptoms to develop if you suspect that someone has been poisoned. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does not need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

After doing first aid steps at home, you may need to go to the emergency room.
Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible. At the hospital you
will have an exam. You also may need the following tests and treatments.

    * Activated charcoal
    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT (computerized tomography, or advanced imaging) scan
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through the vein (IV)
    * Laxative
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, including antidotes to reverse the effects of the poisoning if one exists 

## Prevention

Be aware of poisons in and around your home. Take steps to protect young
children from toxic substances. Store all medicines, cleaners, cosmetics, and
household chemicals out of reach of children, or in cabinets with childproof
latches.

Be familiar with plants in your home, yard, and vicinity. Keep your children
informed, too. Remove any poisonous plants. Never eat wild plants, mushrooms,
roots, or berries unless you very familiar with them.

Teach children about the dangers of substances that contain poison. Label all
poisons.

DO NOT store household chemicals in food containers, even if they are labeled.
Most nonfood substances are poisonous if taken in large doses.

If you are concerned that industrial poisons might be polluting nearby land or
water, report your concerns to the local health department or the state or
federal Environmental Protection Agency.

Some poisons or environmental exposures do not require large doses or contact
to cause symptoms and injury. Therefore, it is very important to get treatment
right away to avoid serious harm. The outcome will depend on the type of
poison the person came in contact with and the care received to treat the
exposure.

## Images

    * ![Check airway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9544t.jpg)Check airway

## References

Gummin DD, Mowry JB, Spyker DA, Brooks DE, Osterthaler KM, Banner W. 2017
Annual report of the American Association of Poison Control Centers' National
Poison Data System (NPDS): 35th annual report. _Clin Toxicol_ (Phila).
2018;56(12):1213-1415. PMID: 30576252 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30576252.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Nelson LS, Ford MD. Acute poisoning. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

