Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002863.htm    
                                Description: This article describes poisoning caused by eating parts of the Caladium plant and other plants in the Araceae family.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Caladium plant poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002863.htm

# Caladium plant poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes poisoning caused by eating parts of the Caladium plant
and other plants in the Araceae family.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The poisonous ingredients are:

    * Calcium oxalate crystals
    * Asparagine, a protein found in the plant 

**Note:** All parts of the plants are poisonous if large amounts are eaten.

## Where Found

Caladium and related plants are used as houseplants and in gardens.

## Symptoms

Symptoms from eating parts of the plant or from the plant touching the eye
include:

    * Burning in the mouth or throat
    * Damage to the outer clear layer (cornea) of the eye
    * Diarrhea
    * Eye pain
    * Hoarse voice and difficulty speaking
    * Increased salivation
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Swelling and blistering in the mouth or tongue 

Blistering and swelling in the mouth may be severe enough to prevent normal
speaking and swallowing.

## Home Care

If the plant was eaten, wipe out the mouth with a cold, wet cloth, and give
the person milk to drink. Call poison control for more treatment information.

If the eyes or skin touched the plant, rinse them well with water.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the plant and parts eaten
    * Amount swallowed
    * The time it was swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the plant with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated. The person may receive:

    * Airway and breathing support for severe mouth and throat swelling
    * Additional eye flushing or washing
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, through a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who do not have a lot of mouth contact with the plant are usually fine
within a few days. People who have more mouth contact with the plant may take
longer to recover. Serious burns to the cornea may require specialized eye
care.

## Alternative Names

Alocasia plant poisoning; Angel wings plant poisoning; Colocasia plant
poisoning; Heart of Jesus plant poisoning; Texas Wonder plant poisoning

## References

Auerbach PS. Wild plant and mushroom poisoning, In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Medicine
for the Outdoors_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:374-404.

Graeme KA. Toxic plant ingestions. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS,
eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 65.

Lim CS, Aks SE. Plants, mushrooms, and herbal medications. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 158.

## Review Date 7/2/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

