Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001083.htm    
                                Description: Hydrocarbon pneumonia is caused by drinking or breathing in gasoline, kerosene, furniture polish, paint thinner, or other oily materials or solvents. These hydrocarbons have a very low viscosity, which    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydrocarbon pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001083.htm

# Hydrocarbon pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydrocarbon pneumonia is caused by drinking or breathing in gasoline,
kerosene, furniture polish, paint thinner, or other oily materials or
solvents. These hydrocarbons have a very low viscosity, which means that they
are very, very thin and slippery. If you tried to drink these hydrocarbons,
some would likely slip down your windpipe and into your lungs (aspiration)
rather than going down your food pipe (esophagus) and into your stomach. This
can easily happen if you try to siphon gas out of a gas tank with a hose and
your mouth.

These products cause fairly rapid changes in the lungs, including
inflammation, swelling, and bleeding.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Coma (lack of responsiveness)
    * Coughing
    * Fever
    * Shortness of breath
    * Smell of a hydrocarbon product on the breath
    * StuporÂ (decreased level of alertness)
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

At the emergency room, the health care provider will check vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

The following tests and interventions (actions taken for improvement) may be
done in the emergency department:

    * Arterial blood gas (acid-base balance) monitoring
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, inhalation treatment, breathing tube and ventilator (machine), in severe cases
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids by vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Blood metabolic panel
    * Toxicology screen

## Treatment

Those with mild symptoms should be evaluated by doctors in an emergency room,
but may not require a hospital stay. The minimum observation period after
inhalation of a hydrocarbon is 6 hours.

People with moderate and severe symptoms are usually admitted to the hospital,
occasionally to an intensive care unit (ICU).

Hospital treatment would likely include some or all of the interventions
started in the emergency department.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children who drink or inhale hydrocarbon products and develop chemical
pneumonitis recover fully following treatment. Highly toxic hydrocarbons may
lead to rapid respiratory failure and death. Repeated ingestions may lead to
permanent brain, liver and other organ damage.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include any of the following:

    * Pleural effusion (fluid surrounding the lungs)
    * Pneumothorax (collapsed lung from huffing)
    * Secondary bacterial infections 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you know or suspect that your child has swallowed or inhaled a hydrocarbon
product, take them to the emergency room immediately. DO NOT use ipecac to
make the person throw up.

## Prevention

If you have young children, be sure to identify and store materials containing
hydrocarbons carefully.

## Alternative Names

Pneumonia - hydrocarbon

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs

## References

Blanc PD. Acute responses to toxic exposures. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 75.

Wang GS, Buchanan JA. Hydrocarbons. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 152.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

