Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002496.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses poisoning from copper.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Copper poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002496.htm

# Copper poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses poisoning from copper.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Copper can be poisonous if it is swallowed or inhaled.

## Where Found

Copper is found in these products:

    * Certain coins - all pennies in the United States made before 1982 contained copper
    * Certain insecticides and fungicides
    * Copper wire
    * Some aquarium products
    * Vitamin and mineral supplements (copper is an essential micronutrient, but too much can be toxic) 

Other products may also contain copper.

## Symptoms

Swallowing large amounts of copper may cause:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Vomiting
    * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice) 

Touching large amounts of copper can cause the hair to turn a different color
(green). Breathing in copper dust and fumes may cause an acute syndrome of
metal fume fever (MFF). People with this syndrome have:

    * Chest pain
    * Chills
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * General weakness
    * Headache
    * Metallic taste in the mouth 

Long-term exposure may cause lung inflammation and permanent scarring. This
can lead to decreased lung function.

Symptoms of long-term exposure include:

    * Anemia (low red blood cell count)
    * Burning sensation
    * Chills
    * Convulsions
    * Dementia
    * Diarrhea (often bloody and may be blue in color)
    * Difficulty speaking
    * Fever
    * Involuntary movements
    * Jaundice (yellow skin)
    * Kidney failure
    * Liver failure
    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Muscle aches
    * Nausea
    * Pain
    * Shock
    * Tremor (shaking)
    * Vomiting
    * Weakness

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make a person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the product (and ingredients and strength, if known)
    * The time it was swallowed or inhaled
    * The amount swallowed or inhaled

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Activated charcoal by mouth or tube through the nose into the stomach
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine
    * Dialysis (kidney machine)
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * Medicine to reverse the effect of copper

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sudden (acute) copper poisoning is rare. However, serious health problems from
long-term exposure to copper can occur. Severe poisoning can cause liver
failure and death.

In poisonings from a long-term buildup of copper in the body, the outcome
depends on how much damage there is to the body's organs.

## References

Aronson JK. Copper. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th
ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:585-589.

Lewis JH. Liver disease caused by anesthetics, chemicals, toxins, and herbal
preparations. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 89.

Theobald JL, Mycyk MB. Iron and heavy metals. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 151.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

