Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000774.htm    
                                Description: Ethylene glycol is a colorless, odorless, sweet-tasting chemical. It is poisonous if swallowed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ethylene glycol poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000774.htm

# Ethylene glycol poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ethylene glycol is a colorless, odorless, sweet-tasting chemical. It is
poisonous if swallowed.

Ethylene glycol may be swallowed accidentally, or it may be taken deliberately
in a suicide attempt or as a substitute for drinking alcohol (ethanol). Most
ethylene glycol poisonings occur due to the ingestion of antifreeze.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison control center
can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Ethylene glycol

## Where Found

Ethylene glycol is found in many household products, including:

    * Antifreeze
    * Car wash fluids
    * De-icing products
    * Detergents
    * Vehicle brake fluids
    * Industrial solvents
    * Paints
    * Cosmetics

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

The first symptom of ethylene glycol ingestion is similar to the feeling
caused by drinking alcohol (ethanol). Within a few hours, more toxic effects
become apparent. Symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, convulsions, stupor
(decreased level of alertness), or even coma.

Ethylene glycol toxicity should be suspected in anyone who is severely ill
after drinking an unknown substance, especially if they at first appear drunk
and you can't smell alcohol on their breath.

An overdose of ethylene glycol can damage the brain, lungs, liver, and
kidneys. The poisoning causes disturbances in the body's chemistry, including
metabolic acidosis (increased acids in the bloodstream and tissues). The
disturbances may be severe enough to cause profound shock, organ failure, and
death.

As little as 120 milliliters (approximately 4 fluid ounces) of ethylene glycol
may be enough to kill an average-sized man.

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by the poison control center or a health care professional.

## Before Calling Emergency

Determine the following information:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
    * The time it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Diagnosis of ethylene glycol toxicity is usually made through a combination of
blood, urine, and other tests such as:

    * Arterial blood gas analysis
    * Chemistry panel and liver function studies
    * Chest x-ray (shows fluids in the lungs)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan (shows brain swelling)
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Ethylene glycol blood test
    * Ketones -- blood
    * Osmolality
    * Toxicology screen
    * Urinalysis

Tests will show increased levels of ethylene glycol, blood chemical
disturbances, and possible signs of kidney failure and muscle or liver damage.

Most people with ethylene glycol poisoning need to be admitted to a hospital's
intensive care unit (ICU) for close monitoring. A breathing machine
(respirator) may be needed.

Those who recently (within 30 to 60 minutes of presentation to the emergency
department) swallowed the ethylene glycol may have their stomach pumped
(suctioned). This can help remove some of the poison.

Other treatments may include:

    * Activated charcoal
    * Sodium bicarbonate solution given through a vein (IV) to reverse severe acidosis
    * An antidote (fomepizole) that slows the formation of the poisonous by-products in the body

In severe cases, dialysis (kidney machine) may be used to directly remove the
ethylene glycol and other poisonous substances from the blood. Dialysis
reduces the time needed for the body to remove the toxins. Dialysis is also
needed by people who develop severe kidney failure as a result of poisoning.
It may be needed for many months and possibly years, afterward.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on how quickly treatment is received, the
amount swallowed, the organs affected, and other factors. When treatment is
delayed, this type of poisoning can be deadly.

Complications may include:

    * Brain and nerve damage, including seizures and changes in vision
    * Kidney failure
    * Shock (low blood pressure and depressed heart function)
    * Coma

## Alternative Names

Intoxication - ethylene glycol

## Images

    * ![Poisons](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9768t.jpg)Poisons

## References

Aronson JK. Glycols. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meylerâs Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:567-570.

Nelson ME. Toxic alcohols. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 141.

## Review Date 12/18/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

