Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002870.htm    
                                Description: A Jack-in-the-pulpit is a plant belonging to the species Arisaema triphyllum. This article describes poisoning caused by eating parts of this plant. The roots are the most dangerous part of the plant.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jack-in-the-pulpit poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002870.htm

# Jack-in-the-pulpit poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Jack-in-the-pulpit is a plant belonging to the species _Arisaema
triphyllum_. This article describes poisoning caused by eating parts of this
plant. The roots are the most dangerous part of the plant.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The poisonous ingredient is:

    * Calcium oxalate 

## Where Found

Jack-in-the-pulpit plants are found in North America in wetlands and moist,
wooded areas.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Burning in mouth and throat
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Slurred speech
    * Swelling of mouth and tongue
    * Teary eyes 

Blistering and swelling in the mouth may be severe enough to prevent normal
speaking and swallowing.

## Home Care

DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do so by poison control or a
health care provider.

Wipe out the mouth with a cold, wet cloth. Immediately give the person milk to
drink, unless instructed otherwise by a provider. DO NOT give milk if the
person is having symptoms (such as vomiting, seizures, or a decreased level of
alertness) that make it hard to swallow.

Wash the skin with water. If the plant material touched the eyes, rinse the
eyes with water.

## Before Calling Emergency

Get the following information:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the plant, if known
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does not need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Wearing gloves, place the plant in a container and take it with you to the
hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as appropriate.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If contact with the person's mouth is not severe, symptoms most often clear up
within a few days. For people who do have severe contact with the plant, a
longer recovery time may be necessary.

DO NOT touch or eat any plant with which you are not familiar. Wash your hands
after working in the garden or walking in the woods.

## Alternative Names

_Arisaema triphyllum_ poisoning; Bog onion poisoning; Brown dragon poisoning;
Indian turnip poisoning; Wake robin poisoning; Wild turnip poisoning

## References

Auerbach PS. Wild plant and mushroom poisoning. In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Medicine
for the Outdoors_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016;374-404.

Graeme KA. Toxic plant ingestions. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS,
eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 65.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

