Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000718.htm    
                                Description: Poisoning can occur when you inhale, swallow, or touch something that makes you very ill. Some poisons can cause death.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000718.htm

# Poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Poisoning can occur when you inhale, swallow, or touch something that makes
you very ill. Some poisons can cause death.

Poisoning most often occurs from:

    * Taking too much medicine or taking medicine not meant for you
    * Inhaling or swallowing household or other types of chemicals
    * Absorbing chemicals through the skin
    * Inhaling gas, such as carbon monoxide 

## How to Tell if Someone has Been Poisoned

Signs or symptoms of poisoning may include:

    * Very large or very small pupils
    * Rapid or very slow heartbeat
    * Rapid or very slow breathing
    * Drooling or very dry mouth
    * Stomach pain, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea
    * Sleepiness or hyperactivity
    * Confusion
    * Slurred speech
    * Uncoordinated movements or difficulty walking
    * Difficulty urinating
    * Loss of bowel or bladder control
    * Burns or redness of the lips and mouth, caused by drinking poison
    * Chemical-smelling breath
    * Chemical burns or stains on the person, clothing, or area around the person
    * Chest pain
    * Headache
    * Loss of vision
    * Spontaneous bleeding
    * Empty pill bottles or pills scattered around 

Other health problems can also cause some of these symptoms. However, if you
think someone has been poisoned, you should act quickly.

Not all poisons cause symptoms right away. Sometimes symptoms come on slowly
or occur hours after exposure.

## What to do in Case of Poisoning

The Poison Control Center recommends taking these steps if someone is
poisoned.

### WHAT TO DO FIRST

    * Stay calm. Not all medicines or chemicals cause poisoning.
    * If the person has passed out or is not breathing, call 9-1-1 or your local emergency number right away.
    * For an inhaled poison such as carbon monoxide, get the person into fresh air right away.
    * For poison on the skin, take off any clothing touched by the poison. Rinse the person's skin with running water for 15 to 20 minutes.
    * For poison in the eyes, rinse the person's eyes with running water for 15 to 20 minutes.
    * For poison that has been swallowed, DO NOT give the person activated charcoal. DO NOT give children ipecac syrup. DO NOT give the person anything before talking with the Poison Control Center. 

### GETTING HELP

Call the Poison Control Center emergency number at 1-800-222-1222. DO NOT wait
until the person has symptoms before you call. Try to have the following
information ready:

    * The container or bottle from the medicine or poison
    * The person's weight, age, and any health problems
    * The time the poisoning occurred
    * How the poisoning happened, such as by mouth, inhaling, or skin or eye contact
    * Whether the person vomited
    * What type of first aid you have given
    * Where the person is located 

The center is available anywhere in the United States. 7 days a week, 24 hours
a day. You can call and talk with a poison expert to find out what to do in
case of a poisoning. Often you will be able to get help over the phone and not
have to go to the emergency room.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

If you need to go to the emergency room, the health care provider will check
your temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

You may need other tests, including:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * X-rays
    * ECG (electrocardiogram)
    * Procedures that look inside your airways (bronchoscopy) or esophagus (swallowing tube) and stomach (endoscopy) 

To keep more poison from being absorbed, you may receive:

    * Activated charcoal
    * A tube through the nose into the stomach
    * A laxative 

Other treatments may include:

    * Rinsing or irrigating the skin and eyes
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the windpipe (trachea) and breathing machine
    * Fluids through the vein (IV)
    * Medicines to reverse the effects of the poison 

## How to Prevent Poisoning

Take these steps to help prevent poisoning.

    * Never share prescription medicines.
    * Take your medicines as directed by your provider. DO NOT take extra medicine or take it more often than prescribed.

Tell your provider and pharmacist about all the medicines you take.

    * Read labels for over-the counter medicines. Always follow the directions on the label.
    * Never take medicine in the dark. Be sure you can see what you are taking.
    * Never mix household chemicals. Doing so can cause dangerous gases.
    * Always store household chemicals in the container they came in. DO NOT reuse containers.
    * Keep all medicines and chemicals locked up or out of the reach of children.
    * Read and follow the labels on household chemicals. Wear clothing or gloves to protect you when handling, if directed.
    * Install carbon monoxide detectors. Make sure they have fresh batteries.

## References

Hrdy M. Poisonings. In: Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _Johns Hopkins: The Harriet
Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

Kostic MA. Poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 63.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

Nelson LS, Ford MD. Acute poisoning. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Poisoning

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

