Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003564.htm    
                                Description: This test measures the level of ethylene glycol in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ethylene glycol blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003564.htm

# Ethylene glycol blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test measures the level of ethylene glycol in the blood.

Ethylene glycol is a type of alcohol found in automotive and household
products. It does not have color or odor. It tastes sweet. Ethylene glycol is
poisonous. People sometimes drink ethylene glycol byÂ mistake or on purpose as
a substitute for drinking alcohol.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation isÂ needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel slight pain.
Others feel a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing or a
slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is ordered when a health care provider thinks someone has been
poisoned by ethylene glycol. Drinking ethylene glycol is a medical emergency.
Ethylene glycol can damage the brain, liver, kidneys, and lungs. The poisoning
disturbs the body's chemistry and can lead to condition called metabolic
acidosis. In severe cases, shock, organ failure, and death can result.

## Normal Results

There should be no ethylene glycol present in the blood.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results are a sign of possible ethylene glycolÂ poisoning.

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the other.
Taking a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Ethylene glycolÂ - serum and urine. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:495-496.

Pincus MR, Bluth MH, Abraham NZ. Toxicology and therapeutic drug monitoring.
In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management
by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

