Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002779.htm    
                                Description: Drain cleaners contain very dangerous chemicals that can be harmful to your health if you swallow them, breathe them in (inhale), or if they come in contact with your skin and eyes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drain cleaner poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002779.htm

# Drain cleaner poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drain cleaners contain very dangerous chemicals that can be harmful to your
health if you swallow them, breathe them in (inhale), or if they come in
contact with your skin and eyes.

This article discusses poisoning from swallowing or breathing in drain
cleaner.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Sodium hydroxide

## Where Found

This poison is found in:

    * Some drain cleaners
    * Some aquarium products 

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of drain cleaner poisoning include:

    * Abdominal pain (severe)
    * Breathing difficulty due to throat swelling
    * Burns of the mouth and throat
    * Chest pain
    * Collapse
    * Diarrhea
    * Drooling
    * Loss of vision if the poison touched the eyes
    * Mouth pain (severe)
    * Rapid drop in blood pressure (shock)
    * Throat pain (severe)
    * Severe burns and tissue damage
    * Vomiting, often bloody

Symptoms from getting sodium hydroxide on the skin or in the eyes include:

    * Burning
    * Severe pain
    * Vision lossÂ 

## Home Care

Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by Poison Control or a health care professional.

If the chemical was swallowed, immediately give the person water or milk,
unless instructed otherwise by a health care provider. DO NOT give water or
milk if the person is having symptoms (such as vomiting, convulsions, or a
decreased level of alertness) that make it hard to swallow.

If the chemical is on the skin or in the eyes, flush with at least 2 quarts
(1.8 liters) for at least 15 minutes.

DO NOT give vinegar or lemon juice, as this may cause more severe burning.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
    * The time it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will
give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison centers in the
United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Camera down the throat (endoscopy) to see burns in the food pipe (esophagus) and stomach
    * Chest x-ray
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms

Activated charcoal, which is used to treat other types of poisoning does not
effectively treat (adsorb) sodium hydroxide.

For skin exposure, treatment may include:

    * Surgical removal of burned skin (debridement)
    * Transfer to a hospital that specializes in burn care
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation), possibly every few hours for several days

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment was received. The faster a person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery.

Swallowing this type of poison can have severe effects on many parts of the
body. Damage to the esophagus and stomach continues to occur for several weeks
after the sodium hydroxide was swallowed. Death may occur up to several months
later from additional complications. Holes (perforations) in the esophagus and
stomach may cause serious infections in the inside spaces of the chest and
abdomen, which may lead to death. Surgery may be needed if the chemical has
perforated the esophagus, stomach, or intestine.

## References

Hoyte C. Caustics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 148.

Kostic MA. Poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 63.

Thomas SHL. Poisoning. In: Ralston SH, Penman ID, Strachan MWJ, Hobson RP,
eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 7.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

