Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002743.htm    
                                Description: Toilet bowl cleaners and deodorizers are substances used to clean and remove odors from toilets. Poisoning may occur if someone swallows toilet bowl cleaner or deodorizer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toilet bowl cleaners and deodorizers poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002743.htm

# Toilet bowl cleaners and deodorizers poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Toilet bowl cleaners and deodorizers are substances used to clean and remove
odors from toilets. Poisoning may occur if someone swallows toilet bowl
cleaner or deodorizer.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The substances in these products that can be harmful are:

    * Detergents
    * Isopropyl alcohol
    * Phenol

## Where Found

There are many types of toilet cleaners and deodorizers available.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of this type of poisoning in different parts of the body.

BLOOD

    * Severe change in blood acid level (can lead to organ damage)

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Burns and pain in the throat
    * Burns and pain in the nose, eyes, ears, lips, or tongue
    * Drooling from burnsÂ   

    * Loss of vision

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS

    * Collapse
    * Low blood pressureÂ that develops rapidly

LUNGS AND AIRWAYS

    * Breathing difficulty due to throat swelling
    * Burns of the breathing passages
    * Irritation  

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Coma
    * Headache
    * Seizures

SKIN

    * Burns
    * Ulcers in the skin or tissues under the skin
    * Irritation

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Blood in the stool
    * Burns in the food pipe (esophagus)
    * Diarrhea  

    * Nausea and vomiting, sometimes containing bloodÂ 
    * SevereÂ abdominal pain

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to. If the product is on the skin
or in the eyes, flush with lots of water for at least 15 minutes.

If the person swallowed the product, give them water or milk right away,
unless a provider tells you not to. DO NOT give anything to drink if the
person has symptoms that make it hard to swallow. These include vomiting,
convulsions, or a decreased level of alertness. If the person breathed in the
product, move them to fresh air right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests.
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs, and a breathing machine (ventilator).
    * Bronchoscopy -- camera placed down the throat to see burns in the airways and lungs.
    * Chest x-ray.
    * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
    * Endoscopy -- camera placed down the throat to see burns in the esophagus and the stomach.
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV).
    * Medicines to treat symptoms.
    * Surgery to remove burned skin.
    * Washing of the skin (irrigation). This may need to be done every few hours for several days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on how much of the product they swallowed and
how quickly they receive treatment. The faster medical help is given, the
better the chance for recovery. Toilet bowl cleaners and deodorizers can cause
extensive damage in the:

    * Lungs
    * Mouth
    * Stomach
    * Throat

The outcome will depend on the extent of this damage.

Delayed injury may occur, including a hole forming in the throat, esophagus,
or stomach. This can lead to severe bleeding and infection.Â Surgical
procedures may be needed to correct these complications.

If the product gets in the eye, ulcers may develop in the cornea, the clear
part of the eye. This can cause blindness.

## References

Hoyte C . Caustics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, et al, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 148.

Kostic MA. Poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 63.

Zosel AE. General approach to the poisoned patient. In: Adams JG, ed.
_Emergency Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap
143.

## Review Date 10/3/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

