Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001356.htm    
                                Description: Smallpox is a serious disease that is easily passed from person to person (contagious). It is caused by a virus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smallpox

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001356.htm

# Smallpox

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Smallpox is a serious disease that is easily passed from person to person
(contagious). It is caused by a virus.

## Causes

Smallpox spreads from one person to another from saliva droplets. It may also
be spread from bed sheets and clothing. It is most contagious during the first
week of the infection. It may continue to be contagious until the scabs from
the rash fall off. The virus can stay alive between 6 and 24 hours.

People were once vaccinated against this disease. However, the disease has
been eradicated since 1979. The United States stopped giving the smallpox
vaccine in 1972. In 1980, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended that
all countries stop vaccinating for smallpox.

There are two forms of smallpox:

    * Variola major is a serious illness that can be life threatening in people who have not been vaccinated. It was responsible for a large number of deaths.
    * Variola minor is a milder infection that rarely causes death. 

A massive program by the WHO wiped out all known smallpox viruses from the
world in the 1970s, except for a few samples saved for government research and
presumed bioweapons. Researchers continue to debate whether or not to kill the
last remaining samples of the virus, or to preserve it in case there may be
some future reason to study it.

You are more likely to develop smallpox if you:

    * Are a laboratory worker who handles the virus (rare)
    * Are in a location where the virus was released as a biological weapon 

It is unknown how long past vaccinations stay effective. People who received
the vaccine many years ago may no longer be fully protected against the virus.

THE RISK OF TERRORISM

There is a concern that the smallpox virus could be spread as part of a
terrorism attack. The virus could be spread in spray (aerosol) form.

## Symptoms

SymptomsÂ most oftenÂ occur about 12 to 14 days after you have been infected
with the virus. They may include:

    * Backache
    * Delirium
    * Diarrhea
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fatigue
    * High fever
    * Malaise
    * Raised pink rash, turns into sores that become crusty on day 8 or 9
    * Severe headache
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

Tests include:

    * DIC panel 
    * Platelet count
    * White blood cell count

Special laboratory tests can be used to identify the virus.

## Treatment

The smallpox vaccine may prevent illness or lessen symptoms if it is given
within 1 to 4 days after a person is exposed to the disease. Once symptoms
have started, treatment is limited.

In July 2013, 59,000 courses of the antiviral drug tecovirimat was delivered
by SIGA Technologies to the United States government's Strategic National
Stockpile for use in a possible bioterrorism incident. SIGA filed for
bankruptcy protection in 2014.

Antibiotics may be given for infections that occur in people who have
smallpox. Taking antibodies against a disease similar to smallpox (vaccinia
immune globulin) may help shorten the duration of the disease.

People who have been diagnosed with smallpox and people they have been in
close contact with need to be isolated right away. They will need to receive
the vaccine and be watched closely.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In the past, this was a major illness. The risk of death was as high as 30%.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Arthritis and bone infections
    * Brain swelling (encephalitis)
    * Death
    * Eye infections
    * Pneumonia
    * Scarring
    * Severe bleeding
    * Skin infections (from the sores) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you think you may have been exposed to smallpox, contact your health care
provider right away. Contact with the virus is very unlikely unless you have
worked with the virus in a lab or you have been exposed through bioterrorism.

## Prevention

Many people were vaccinated against smallpox in the past. The vaccine is no
longer given to the general public. If the vaccine needs to be given to
control an outbreak, it can have a small risk of complications. Currently,
only military personnel, health care workers, and emergency responders may
receive the vaccine.

## Alternative Names

Variola - major and minor; Variola

## Images

    * ![Smallpox lesions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19059t.jpg)Smallpox lesions

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Smallpox.
www.cdc.gov/smallpox/index.html. Updated July 12, 2017. Accessed April 17,
2019.

Damon IK. Smallpox, monkeypox, and other poxvirus infections. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 372.

Petersen BW, Damon IK. Orthopoxviruses: vaccinia (smallpox vaccine), variola
(smallpox), monkeypox, and cowpox. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 135.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Smallpox](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallPox_thumb.jpg)Smallpox _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

