Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000457.htm    
                                Description: Hazardous materials are substances that could harm human health or the environment. Hazardous means dangerous, so these materials must be handled the right way.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hazardous materials

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000457.htm

# Hazardous materials

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hazardous materials are substances that could harm human health or the
environment. Hazardous means dangerous, so these materials must be handled the
right way.

Hazard communication, or HAZCOM is teaching people how to work with hazardous
materials and waste.

There are many different kinds of hazardous materials, including:

    * Chemicals, like some that are used for cleaning
    * Drugs, like chemotherapy to treat cancer
    * Radioactive material that is used for x-rays or radiation treatments
    * Human or animal tissue, blood, or other substances from the body that may carry harmful germs
    * Gases that are used to make people sleep during surgery

Hazardous materials can harm you if they:

    * Touch your skin
    * Splash into your eyes
    * Get into your airways or lungs when you breathe
    * Cause fires or explosions

Your hospital or workplace has policies about how to deal with these
materials. You will receive special training if you work with these materials.

## Watch out for Hazardous Materials

Know where hazardous materials are used and stored. Some common areas are
where:

    * X-rays and other imaging tests are done
    * Radiation treatments are performed
    * Medicines are handled, prepared, or given to people -- especially cancer treatment drugs
    * Chemicals or supplies are delivered, packed for shipping, or thrown away

Always treat any container that does not have a label like it is hazardous.
Treat any spilled substance the same way.

If you do not know if something you use or find is harmful, be sure to ask.

## Labels and Signs

Look for signs before you enter a person's room, a lab or x-ray area, a
storage closet, or any area you do not know well.

You may see warning labels on boxes, containers, bottles, or tanks. Look for
words like:

    * Acid
    * Alkali
    * Carcinogenic
    * Caution
    * Corrosive
    * Danger
    * Explosive
    * Flammable
    * Irritant
    * Radioactive
    * Unstable
    * Warning 

A label called the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) will tell you if a
material is hazardous. This label tells you:

    * Names of the hazardous chemicals or substances in the container.
    * Facts about the substance, such as the odor or when it will boil or melt.
    * How it could harm you.
    * What your symptoms could be if you are exposed to the material.
    * How to safely handle the material and what personal protective equipment (PPE) to wear when you handle it.
    * What steps to take before more skilled or trained professionals come to help.
    * If the material could cause a fire or explosion, and what to do if this happens.
    * What to do if a spill or leak occurs.
    * What to do if there is danger from the material mixing with other substances.
    * How to safely store the material, including what temperature to keep it at, if moisture is safe, and whether it should be in a room with good airflow. 

## Work Safely

If you find a spill, treat it like it is hazardous until you know what it is.
This means:

    * Put on PPE, such as a respirator or mask and gloves that will protect you from chemicals.
    * Use disinfectant wipes to clean up the spill and put the wipes in double plastic bags.
    * Contact waste management to clean the area and to throw away the supplies you used to clean up the spill. 

Always treat any unlabeled container as if it contains hazardous materials.
This means:

    * Put the container in a bag and take it to waste management to be thrown away.
    * DO NOT pour the material down the drain.
    * DO NOT put the material in the normal trash.
    * DO NOT let it get into the air. 

If you work with hazardous materials:

    * Read the MSDS for all materials you use.
    * Know what type of PPE to wear.
    * Learn about exposure risks, such as whether the material can cause cancer.
    * Know how to use the material and how to store it or throw it away when you are done. 

Other tips include:

    * Never enter an area where radiation therapy is taking place.
    * Always use the safest container to move materials from one area to another.
    * Check bottles, containers, or tanks for leaks. 

## Alternative Names

HazCom; Hazard communication; Material Safety Data Sheet; MSDS

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Personal protective
equipment for hazardous materials incidents: a selection guide.
www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/84-114/default.html. Updated April 10, 2017. Accessed
October 22, 2019.

Occupational Safety and Health Administration website. Hazard communication.
www.osha.gov/dsg/hazcom/index.html. Accessed October 22, 2019.

## Review Date 9/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hazardous Waste

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

