Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002480.htm    
                                Description: Acetone is a chemical used in many household products. This article discusses poisoning from swallowing acetone-based products. Poisoning may also occur from breathing in fumes or absorbing it through    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acetone poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002480.htm

# Acetone poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acetone is a chemical used in many household products. This article discusses
poisoning from swallowing acetone-based products. Poisoning may also occur
from breathing in fumes or absorbing it through the skin.

This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of
an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local
emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at
1-800-222-1222.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The poisonous ingredients include:

    * Acetone
    * Dimethyl formaldehyde
    * Dimethyl ketone

## Where Found

Acetone can be found in:

    * Nail polish remover
    * Some cleaning solutions
    * Some glues, including rubber cement
    * Some lacquers

Other products may also contain acetone.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of acetone poisoning or exposure in different parts of the
body.

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS (CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM)

    * Low blood pressure

STOMACH AND INTESTINES (GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM)

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pain in belly area
    * Person may have a fruity odor
    * Sweet taste in mouth

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Feeling of drunkenness
    * Coma (unconscious, unresponsive)
    * Drowsiness
    * Stupor (confusion, decreased level of consciousness)
    * Lack of coordination 

BREATHING (RESPIRATORY) SYSTEM

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Slowed breathing rate
    * Shortness of breath

URINARY SYSTEM

    * Increased need to urinate

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Do NOT make a person throw up unless the poison
control center or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * The time it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container that contains the acetone with you to the hospital, if
possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated. The person may receive:

    * Blood tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen and a breathing tube through the mouth into the lungs
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, fluids given through a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Tube through the nose into the stomach to empty the stomach (gastric lavage)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Accidentally drinking small amounts of acetone/nail polish remover is unlikely
to harm you as an adult. However, even small amounts can be dangerous to your
child, so it is important to keep this and all household chemicals in a safe
place.

If the person survives past 48 hours, the chances for recovery are good.

## Alternative Names

Dimethyl formaldehyde poisoning; Dimethyl ketone poisoning; Nail polish
remover poisoning

## References

Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) website. Atlanta, GA:
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service.
Toxicological profile for acetone.
www.atsdr.cdc.gov/toxprofiles/tp.asp?id=5&tid=1. Updated April 8, 2019.
Accessed May 14, 2019.

Nelson ME. Toxic alcohols. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 141.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Household
Products](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HouseholdProducts_thumb.jpg)Household
Products _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

