Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002432.htm    
                                Description: Genetically engineered (GE) foods have had their DNA changed using genes from other plants or animals. Scientists take the gene for a desired trait in one plant or animal, and they insert that gene into    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genetically engineered foods

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002432.htm

# Genetically engineered foods

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Genetically engineered (GE) foods have had their DNA changed using genes from
other plants or animals. Scientists take the gene for a desired trait in one
plant or animal, and they insert that gene into a cell of another plant or
animal.

## Function

Genetic engineering can be done with plants, animals, or bacteria and other
very small organisms. Genetic engineering allows scientists to move desired
genes from one plant or animal into another. Genes can also be moved from an
animal to a plant or vice versa. Another name for this is genetically modified
organisms, or GMOs.

The process to create GE foods is different than selective breeding. This
involves selecting plants or animals with desired traits and breeding them.
Over time, this results in offspring with those desired traits.

One of the problems with selective breeding is that it can also result in
traits that are not desired. Genetic engineering allows scientists to select
one specific gene to implant. This avoids introducing other genes with
undesirable traits. Genetic engineering also helps speed up the process of
creating new foods with desired traits.

The possible benefits of genetic engineering include:

    * More nutritious food
    * Tastier food
    * Disease- and drought-resistant plants that require fewer environmental resources (such as water and fertilizer)
    * Less use of pesticides
    * Increased supply of food with reduced cost and longer shelf life
    * Faster growing plants and animals
    * Food with more desirable traits, such as potatoes that produce less of a cancer-causing substance when fried 
    * Medicinal foods that could be used as vaccines or other medicines

Some people have expressed concerns about GE foods, such as:

    * Creating foods that can cause an allergic reaction or that are toxic
    * Unexpected or harmful genetic changes
    * Genes moving from one GM plant or animal to another plant or animal that is not genetically engineered
    * Foods that are less nutritious

These concerns have proven to be unfounded. None of the GE foods used today
have caused any of these problems. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
assesses all GE foods to make sure they are safe before allowing them to be
sold. In addition to the FDA, the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and
the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) regulate bioengineered plants and
animals. They assess the safety of GE foods to humans, animals, plants, and
the environment.

## Food Sources

Cotton, corn, and soybeans are the main GE crops grown in the United States.
Most of these are used to make ingredients for other foods, such as:

    * Corn syrup used as a sweetener in many foods and drinks
    * Corn starch used in soups and sauces
    * Soybean, corn, and canola oils used in snack foods, breads, salad dressings, and mayonnaise
    * Sugar from sugar beets

Other major GE crops include:

    * Apples
    * Papayas
    * Potatoes
    * Squash

## Side Effects

There are no side effects from consuming GE foods.

## Recommendations

The World Health Organization, the National Academy of Science, and several
other major science organizations across the globe have reviewed research on
GE foods and found no evidence that they are harmful. There are no reports of
illness, injury, or environmental harm due to GE foods. Genetically engineered
foods are just as safe as conventional foods.

In the United States, labeling of genetically engineered foods is not required
by the FDA. This is because there has been no significant difference found in
nutrition or safety. The US Department of Agriculture recently proposed a
draft rule on the labeling of bioengineered food and food ingredients. The new
disclosure statements or symbols must be on most products by January 1, 2020.

## Alternative Names

Bioengineered foods; GMOs; Genetically modified foods

## References

Hielscher S, Pies I, Valentinov V, Chatalova L. Rationalizing the GMO debate:
the ordonomic approach to addressing agricultural myths. _Int J Environ Res
Public Health_. 2016;13(5):E476. PMID: 27171102.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27171102.

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2016. _Genetically
Engineered Crops: Experiences and Prospects_. Washington, DC: The National
Academies Press.

United States Department of Agriculture. National bioengineered food
disclosure standard. www.ams.usda.gov/rules-regulations/national-
bioengineered-food-disclosure-standard. Accessed October 10, 2018.  

US Food & Drug Administration. Consumer info about food from genetically
engineered plants. www.fda.gov/food/food-new-plant-varieties/consumer-info-
about-food-genetically-engineered-plants. Updated January 4, 2018. Accessed
October 10, 2018.

World Health Organization. Frequently asked questions on genetically modified
foods. www.who.int/foodsafety/areas_work/food-
technology/Frequently_asked_questions_on_gm_foods.pdf. Updated May 2014.
Accessed October 10, 2018.

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Food Safety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodSafety_thumb.jpg)Food Safety
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

