Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002434.htm    
                                Description: Food safety refers to the conditions and practices that preserve the quality of food. These practices prevent contamination and foodborne illnesses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Food safety

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002434.htm

# Food safety

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Food safety refers to the conditions and practices that preserve the quality
of food. These practices prevent contamination and foodborne illnesses.

## Function

Food can be contaminated in many different ways. Some food products may
already contain bacteria or parasites. These germs can be spread during the
packaging process if the food products are not handled properly. Improperly
cooking, preparing, or storing food can also cause contamination.

Properly handling, storing, and preparing food greatly reduces the risk of
getting foodborne illnesses.

## Food Sources

All foods can become contaminated. Higher risk foods include red meats,
poultry, eggs, cheese, dairy products, raw sprouts, and raw fish or shellfish.

## Side Effects

Poor food safety practices can lead to foodborne illness. Symptoms of
foodborne illnesses vary. They usually include stomach problems or stomach
upset. Foodborne illnesses may be severe and fatal. Young children, older
adults, pregnant women, and people who have a weakened immune system are
especially at risk.

## Recommendations

If your hands have any cuts or sores, wear gloves suitable for handling food
or avoid preparing food. To reduce your risk of foodborne illness you should
wash your hands thoroughly:

    * Before and after handling any food
    * After using the toilet or changing diapers
    * After touching animals 

To avoid cross-contaminating food items you should:

    * Wash all cutting boards and utensils with hot water and soap after preparing each food item.
    * Separate meat, poultry, and seafood from other foods during preparation. 

To reduce chances of food poisoning, you should:

    * Cook food to the correct temperature. Check the temperature with an internal thermometer at the thickest point, never on the surface. Poultry, all ground meats, and all stuffed meats should be cooked to an internal temperature of 165Â°F (73.8Â°C). Seafood and steaks or chops or roasts of red meat should be cooked to an internal temperature of 145Â°F (62.7Â°C). Reheat leftovers to an internal temperature of least 165Â°F (73.8Â°C). Cook eggs until the white and yolk are firm. Fish should have an opaque appearance and flake easily.
    * Refrigerate or freeze food promptly. Store food at the right temperature as quickly as possible after it is purchased. Buy your groceries at the end of running your errands rather than the beginning. Leftovers should be refrigerated within 2 hours of serving. Move hot foods into wide, flat containers so that they can cool down more quickly. Keep frozen foods in the freezer until they are ready to be thawed and cooked. Thaw foods in the fridge or under cool running water (or in the microwave if the food is going to be cooked immediately after thawing); never thaw foods on the counter at room temperature.
    * Label leftovers clearly with the date they were prepared and stored.
    * Never cut mold off of any food and attempt to eat the parts that look "safe". The mold can extend further into the food than you can see.
    * Food can also be contaminated before it is purchased. Watch for and DO NOT buy or use outdated food, packaged food with a broken seal, or cans that have a bulge or dent. DO NOT use foods that have an unusual odor or appearance, or a spoiled taste.
    * Prepare home-canned foods in clean conditions. Be very careful during the canning process. Home-canned foods are the most common cause of botulism. 

## Alternative Names

Food - hygiene and sanitation

## References

Mody RK, Griffin PM. Foodborne disease. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 103.

Ochoa TJ, Chea-Woo E. Approach to patients with gastrointestinal tract
infections and food poisoning. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 44.

United States Department of Health and Human Services. Food safety: by types
of foods. www.foodsafety.gov/keep/types/index.html. Accessed April 17, 2018.

United States Department of Agriculture. Food Safety and Inspection Service.
Keeping food safe during an emergency.
www.fsis.usda.gov/wps/portal/fsis/topics/food-safety-education/get-
answers/food-safety-fact-sheets/emergency-preparedness/keeping-food-safe-
during-an-emergency/CT_Index. Updated July 30, 2013. Accessed April 17, 2018.

## Review Date 1/13/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Food Safety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodSafety_thumb.jpg)Food Safety
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

