Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002461.htm    
                                Description: Cooking utensils can have an effect on your nutrition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cooking utensils and nutrition

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002461.htm

# Cooking utensils and nutrition

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cooking utensils can have an effect on your nutrition.

## Function

Pots, pans, and other tools used in cooking often do more than just hold the
food. The material that they are made from can leach into the food that is
being cooked.

Common materials used in cookware and utensils are:

    * Aluminum
    * Copper
    * Iron
    * Lead
    * Stainless steel
    * Teflon (polytetrafluoroethlyene) 

Both lead and copper have been linked to illness. The FDA imposed limits on
the amount of lead in dishware, but ceramic items made in other countries or
considered to be a craft, antique, or collectable may exceed the recommended
amount.. The FDA also warns against using unlined copper cookware since the
metal easily can leach into acidic foods, causing copper toxicity.

## Food Sources

Cooking utensils can affect any cooked foods.

## Recommendations

Choose metal cookware and bakeware that can be easily cleaned. There should be
no cracks or rough edges that can trap or hold food or bacteria.

Avoid using metal or hard plastic utensils on cookware. These utensils can
scratch surfaces and cause pots and pans to wear out faster. Use wood, bamboo
or silicone instead. Never use cookware if the coating has started to peel or
wear away.

 **Aluminum**

Aluminum cookware is very popular. Nonstick, scratch-resistant anodized
aluminum cookware is a good choice. The hard surface is easy to clean. It is
sealed so aluminum cannot get into food.

There have been concerns in the past that aluminum cookware increases the risk
for Alzheimer disease. The Alzheimer's Association reports that using aluminum
cookware is not a major risk for the disease.

Uncoated aluminum cookware is a greater risk. This type of cookware can easily
melt. It can cause burns if it gets too hot. Still, research has shown that
the amount of aluminum this cookware leaches into food is very small.

 **Lead**

Children should be protected from ceramic cookware containing lead.

    * Acidic foods such as oranges, tomatoes, or foods containing vinegar will cause more lead to be leached from ceramic cookware than non-acidic foods like milk.
    * More lead will leach into hot liquids like coffee, tea, and soups than into cold beverages.
    * DO NOT use any dishware that has a dusty or chalky gray film on the glaze after it has been washed. 

Some ceramic cookware should not be used to hold food. This includes items
bought in another country or considered to be a craft, antique, or
collectable. These pieces may not meet FDA specifications. Test kits can
detect high levels of lead in ceramic cookware, but lower levels may also be
dangerous.

 **Iron**

Iron cookware may be a good choice. Cooking in cast iron pots may increase the
amount of iron in the diet. Most of the time, this is a very small source of
dietary iron.

 **Teflon**

Teflon is a brand name for a nonstick coating found on certain pots and pans.
It contains a substance called polytetrafluoroethlyene.

The nonstick types of these pans should be used only at low or medium heat.
They should never be left unattended at high heat. This may cause the release
of fumes that can irritate humans and household pets. When left unattended on
the stove, empty cookware can get very hot within just a few minutes.

There have been concerns about a possible link between Teflon and
perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a man-made chemical. The Environmental
Protection Agency states that Teflon does not contain PFOA so the cookware
poses no danger.

 **Copper**

Copper pots are popular due to their even heating. But large amounts of copper
from unlined cookware can cause nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.

Some copper and brass pans are coated with another metal to prevent food from
coming into contact with copper. Over time, these coatings can break down and
allow copper to dissolve in food. Older copper cookware may have tin or nickel
coatings and should not be used for cooking.

 **Stainless Steel**

Stainless steel cookware is low in cost and can be used at high heat. It has a
sturdy cookware surface that does not wear down easily. Most stainless steel
cookware has copper or aluminum bottoms for even heating. Health problems from
stainless steel are rare.

 **Cutting Boards**

Choose a surface such as plastic, marble, glass, or pyroceramic. These
materials are easier to clean than wood.

Avoid contaminating vegetables with meat bacteria. Try using one cutting board
for fresh produce and bread. Use a separate one for raw meat, poultry, and
seafood. This will prevent bacteria on a cutting board from getting into the
food that will not be cooked.

Cleaning cutting boards:

    * Wash all cutting boards with hot, soapy water after each use.
    * Rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels.
    * Acrylic, plastic, glass, and solid wood boards can be washed in a dishwasher (laminated boards may crack and split). 

Sanitizing cutting boards:

    * Use a solution of 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of unscented, liquid chlorine bleach per gallon (3.8 liters) of water for both wood and plastic cutting boards.
    * Flood the surface with the bleach solution and allow it to stand for several minutes.
    * Rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels. 

Replacing cutting boards:

    * Plastic and wooden cutting boards wear out over time.
    * Throw out cutting boards that are very worn or have deep grooves. 

**Kitchen Sponges**

Kitchen sponges can grow harmful bacteria, yeasts, and molds.

The United States Department of Agriculture says that the best ways to kill
germs on a kitchen sponge are:

    * Microwave the sponge on high for one minute, which kills up to 99% of germs.
    * Clean it in the dishwasher, using both wash and dry cycles and a water temperature of 140Â°F (60Â°C) or higher. 

Soap and water or bleach and water do not work as well for killing germs on
sponges. Another option is to buy a new sponge each week.

## References

United States Food & Drug Administration. CPG Sec. 545.450 (ceramics); import
and domestic - lead contamination. www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-
fda-guidance-documents/cpg-sec-545450-pottery-ceramics-import-and-domestic-
lead-contamination. Updated November 2005. Accessed June 20, 2019.

United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service. Best
ways to clean kitchen sponges. www.ars.usda.gov/news-events/news/research-
news/2007/best-ways-to-clean-kitchen-sponges. Updated August 22, 2017.
Accessed June 20, 2019.

United States Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service.
Cutting boards and food safety. www.fsis.usda.gov/wps/portal/fsis/topics/food-
safety-education/get-answers/food-safety-fact-sheets/safe-food-
handling/cutting-boards-and-food-safety/ct_index. Updated August 2013.
Accessed June 20, 2019.

## Review Date 4/30/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Food Safety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodSafety_thumb.jpg)Food Safety
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

