Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007441.htm    
                                Description: To prevent food poisoning, take the following steps when preparing food:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preventing food poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007441.htm

# Preventing food poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

To prevent food poisoning, take the following steps when preparing food:

    * Carefully wash your hands often, and always before cooking or cleaning. Always wash them again after touching raw meat.
    * Clean dishes and utensils that have had any contact with raw meat, poultry, fish, or eggs.
    * Use a thermometer when cooking. Cook beef to at least 160Â°F (71Â°C), poultry to at least 165Â°F (73.8Â°C), and fish to at least 145Â°F (62.7Â°C).
    * DO NOT place cooked meat or fish back onto the same plate or container that held the raw meat, unless the container has been completely washed.
    * Refrigerate any perishable food or leftovers within 2 hours. Keep the refrigerator set to around 40Â°F (4.4Â°C) and your freezer at or below 0Â°F (-18Â°C). DO NOT eat meat, poultry, or fish that has been refrigerated uncooked for longer than 1 to 2 days.
    * Cook frozen foods for the full time recommended on the package.
    * DO NOT use outdated foods, packaged food with a broken seal, or cans that are bulging or have a dent.
    * DO NOT use foods that have an unusual odor or a spoiled taste.
    * DO NOT drink water from streams or wells that are not treated. Only drink water that has been treated or chlorinated. 

Other steps to take:

    * If you take care of young children, wash your hands often and dispose of diapers carefully so that bacteria can't spread to other surfaces or people.
    * If you make canned food at home, be sure to follow proper canning techniques to prevent botulism.
    * DO NOT feed honey to children under 1 year of age.
    * DO NOT eat wild mushrooms.
    * When traveling where contamination is more likely, eat only hot, freshly cooked food. Drink water only if it has been boiled. DO NOT eat raw vegetables or unpeeled fruit.
    * DO NOT eat shellfish that has been exposed to red tides.
    * If you are pregnant or have a weakened immune system, DO NOT eat soft cheeses, especially soft cheeses imported from countries outside the United States. 

If other people may have eaten the food that made you sick, let them know. If
you think the food was contaminated when you bought it from a store or
restaurant, tell the store and your local health department.

## References

Adachi JA, Backer HD, Dupont HL. Infectious diarrhea from wilderness and
foreign travel. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's
Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 82.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Food safety at home.
www.fda.gov/consumers/free-publications-women/food-safety-home. Updated April
19, 2019. Accessed April 30, 2019.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 04/30/2019.

![Food Safety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodSafety_thumb.jpg)Food Safety
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

