Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003360.htm    
                                Description: Blood lead level is a test that measures the amount of lead in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lead levels - blood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003360.htm

# Lead levels - blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood lead level is a test that measures the amount of lead in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin.

    * The blood collects in a small glass tube called a pipette, or onto a slide or test strip.
    * A bandage is put over the spot to stop any bleeding. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

For children, it may be helpful to explain how the test will feel and why it
is done. This may make the child feel less nervous.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to screen people at risk for lead poisoning. This may
include industrial workers and children who live in urban areas. The test is
also used to diagnose lead poisoning when a person has symptoms of the
condition. It is also used to measure how well treatment for lead poisoning is
working. Lead is common in the environment, so it is often found in the body
in low levels.

## Normal Results

Small amounts of lead in adults are not thought to be harmful. However, even
low levels of lead can be dangerous to infants and children. It can cause lead
poisoning that leads to problems in mental development.

Adults:

    * Less than 10 micrograms per deciliter (Âµg/dL) or 0.48 micromoles per liter (Âµmol/L) of lead in the blood 

Children:

    * Less than 5 Âµg/dL or 0.24 Âµmol/L of lead in the blood 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In adults, a blood lead level of 5 Âµg/dL or 0.24 Âµmol/L or above is
considered elevated. Treatment may be recommended if:

    * Your blood lead level is greater than 80 Âµg/dL or 3.86 Âµmol/L.
    * You have symptoms of lead poisoning and your blood lead level is greater than 40 Âµg/dL or 1.93 Âµmol/L. 

In children:

    * Blood lead level of 5 Âµg/dL or 0.24 Âµmol/L or greater requires further testing and monitoring.
    * The source of lead must be found and removed.
    * A lead level greater than 45 Âµg/dL or 2.17 Âµmol/L in a child's blood most often indicates the need for treatment.
    * Treatment may be considered with a level as low as 20 Âµg/dL or 0.97 Âµmol/L. 

## Alternative Names

Blood lead levels

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Lead: what do parents need
to know to protect their children?
www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/acclpp/blood_lead_levels.htm. Updated May 17, 2017.
Accessed April 30, 2019.

Kao LW, Rusyniak DE. Chronic poisoning: trace metals and others. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

Markowitz M. Lead poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 739.

Pincus MR, Bluth MH, Abraham NZ. Toxicology and therapeutic drug monitoring.
In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management
by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Schnur J, John RM. Childhood lead poisoning and the new Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention guidelines for lead exposure. _J Am Assoc Nurse Pract_.
2014;26(5):238-247. PMID: 24616453 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24616453.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lead Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeadPoisoning_thumb.jpg)Lead
Poisoning _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

