Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003457.htm    
                                Description: Delta-ALA is a protein (amino acid) produced by the liver. A test can be done to measure the amount of this substance in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Delta-ALA urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003457.htm

# Delta-ALA urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Delta-ALA is a protein (amino acid) produced by the liver. A test can be done
to measure the amount of this substance in the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

Your health care provider will ask you to collect your urine at home over 24
hours. This is called a 24-hour urine sample. Your provider will tell you how
to do this. Follow instructions exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking any medicines that can
affect test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the medicines you
take. These include:

    * Penicillin (an antibiotic)
    * Barbiturates (medicines to treat anxiety)
    * Birth control pills
    * Griseofulvin (medicine to treat fungal infections)

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test looks for an increased level of delta-ALA. It may be used to help
diagnose a blood disorder called porphyria.

## Normal Results

Normal value range for adults is 1.0 to 7.0 mg (7.6 to 53.3 mol/L) over 24
hours.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly from one lab to another. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increased level of urinary delta-ALA may indicate:

    * Lead poisoning
    * Porphyria (several types)

Â A decreased level may occur with chronic (long-term)Â liver disease.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Delta-aminolevulinic acid

## Images

    * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample

## References

Elghetany MT, Schexneider KI, Banki K. Erythrocytic disorders. In: McPherson
RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Fuller SJ, Wiley JS. Heme biosynthesis and its disorders: porphyrias and
sideroblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lead Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeadPoisoning_thumb.jpg)Lead
Poisoning _Read more_

![Porphyria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Porphyria_thumb.jpg)Porphyria
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

