Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002428.htm    
                                Description: Nutritional considerations to reduce the risk of lead poisoning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lead - nutritional considerations

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002428.htm

# Lead - nutritional considerations

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nutritional considerations to reduce the risk of lead poisoning.

## Function

Lead is a natural element with thousands of uses. Because it is widespread
(and often hidden), lead can easily contaminate food and water without being
seen or tasted. In the United States, it is estimated that half a million
children ages 1 through 5 have unhealthy levels of lead in their bloodstream.

## Food Sources

Lead can be found in canned goods if there is lead solder in the cans. Lead
may also be found in some containers (metal, glass, and ceramic or glazed
clay) and cooking utensils.

Old paint poses the greatest danger for lead poisoning, especially in young
children. Tap water from lead pipes or pipes with lead solder is also a source
of hidden lead.

Immigrant and refugee children are at much greater risk for lead poisoning
than children born in the United States because of diet and other exposure
risks before arriving in the US.

## Side Effects

High doses of lead can damage the gastrointestinal system, nervous system,
kidneys, and blood system and can even lead to death. Continuous low-level
exposure causes lead to accumulate in the body and cause damage. It is
particularly dangerous for babies, before and after birth, and for small
children, because their bodies and brains are growing rapidly.

Many federal agencies study and monitor lead exposure. The Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) monitors lead in food, beverages, food containers, and
tableware. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) monitors lead levels in
drinking water.

## Recommendations

To reduce the risk for lead poisoning:

    * Run tap water for a minute before drinking or cooking with it.
    * If your water has tested high in lead, consider installing a filtering device or switching to bottled water for drinking and cooking.
    * Avoid canned goods from foreign countries until the ban on lead soldered cans goes into effect.
    * If imported wine containers have a lead foil wrapper, wipe the rim and neck of the bottle with a towel moistened with lemon juice, vinegar, or wine before using.
    * DO NOT store wine, spirits, or vinegar-based salad dressings in lead crystal decanters for long periods of time, as lead can leach out into the liquid. 

Other important recommendations:

    * Paint over old leaded paint if it is in good condition, or remove the old paint and repaint with lead-free paint. If the paint needs to be sanded or removed because it is chipping or peeling, get advice on safe removal from the National Lead Information Center (800-LEAD-FYI).
    * Keep your home as dust-free as possible and have everyone wash their hands before eating.
    * Dispose of old painted toys if you do not know whether they have lead-free paint. 

## Alternative Names

Lead poisoning - nutritional considerations; Toxic metal - nutritional
considerations

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Lead.
www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/default.htm. Updated October 18, 2018. Accessed January
9, 2019.

Markowitz M. Lead poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 739.

Theobald JL, Mycyk MB. Iron and heavy metals. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 151.

## Review Date 12/27/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Lead Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeadPoisoning_thumb.jpg)Lead
Poisoning _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

