Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002476.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses poisoning from mercury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mercury poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002476.htm

# Mercury poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses poisoning from mercury.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

There are three different forms of mercury that cause health problems. They
are:

    * Elemental mercury, also known as liquid mercury or quicksilver
    * Inorganic mercury salts
    * Organic mercury 

## Where Found

Elemental mercury can be found in:

    * Glass thermometers
    * Electrical switches
    * Fluorescent light bulbs
    * Dental fillings
    * Some medical equipment 

Inorganic mercury can be found in:

    * Batteries
    * Chemistry labs
    * Some disinfectants
    * Folk remedies
    * Red cinnabar mineral 

Organic mercury can be found in:

    * Older germ-killers (antiseptics) such as red mercurochrome (merbromin) (this substance is now banned by the FDA)
    * Fumes from burning coal
    * Fish that have eaten a form of organic mercury called methylmercury

There may be other sources of these forms of mercury.

## Symptoms

ELEMENTAL MERCURY

Elemental mercury is usually harmless if it is touched or swallowed. It is so
thick and slippery that it usually falls off the skin or leaves the stomach
and intestines without being absorbed.

A lot of damage can occur, though, if elemental mercury gets into the air in
the form of small droplets that are breathed into the lungs. This often occurs
by mistake when people try to vacuum up mercury that has spilled onto the
ground.

Breathing in enough elemental mercury will cause symptoms right away. These
are called acute symptoms. Long-term symptoms will occur if small amounts are
inhaled over time. These are called chronic symptoms. Chronic symptoms may
include:

    * Metallic tasteÂ in the mouth
    * Vomiting
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Bad cough
    * Swollen, bleeding gums 

Depending on how much mercury is inhaled, permanent lung damage and death may
occur. Long-term brain damage from inhaled elemental mercury can also occur.

There have been cases of mercury being injected under the skin, which can
cause fever and rash.

INORGANIC MERCURY

Unlike elemental mercury, inorganic mercury isÂ usually poisonous when
swallowed. Depending on how much is swallowed, symptoms may include:

    * Burning in the stomach and throat
    * Bloody diarrhea and vomiting 

If inorganic mercury enters your bloodstream, it can attack the kidneys and
brain. Permanent kidney damage and kidney failure may occur. A large amount in
the bloodstream may cause massive blood and fluid loss from diarrhea and
kidney failure, leading to death.

ORGANIC MERCURY

Organic mercury can cause sickness if it is breathed in, eaten, or placed on
the skin over long periods of time. Usually, organic mercury causes problems
over years or decades, not right away. This means that being exposed to small
amounts of organic mercury every day for years will likely cause symptoms to
appear later. A single large exposure, however, can also cause problems.

Long-term exposure will likely cause symptoms in the nervous system,
including:

    * Numbness or pain in certain parts of your skin
    * Uncontrollable shaking or tremor
    * Inability to walk well
    * Blindness and double vision
    * Memory problems
    * Seizures and death (with large exposures) 

Being exposed to large amounts of the organic mercury called methylmercury
while pregnant may cause permanent brain damage in the baby. Most health care
providers recommend eating less fish, especially swordfish, while pregnant.
Women should talk to their provider about what they should and should not eat
while pregnant.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake and alert?)
    * Source of the mercury
    * Time it was swallowed, inhaled, or touched
    * Amount swallowed, inhaled, or touched

DO NOT delay calling for help if you do not know the above information.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

General treatment for mercury exposure includes the steps just below.
Treatment for exposure to different forms of mercury are given after this
general information.

The person should be moved away from the source of exposure.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram) or heart tracing 

Treatment may include:

    * Activated charcoal by mouth or tube through the nose into the stomach, if mercury is swallowed
    * Dialysis (kidney machine)
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms 

The type of exposure will determine what other tests and treatments are
needed.

ELEMENTAL MERCURY

Inhaled elemental mercury poisoning may be difficult to treat. The person may
receive:

    * Humidified oxygen or air
    * Breathing tube through the mouth into the lungs and use of a breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Suctioning of mercury out of the lungs
    * Medicine to remove mercury and heavy metals from the body
    * Surgical removal of the mercury if injected under the skin 

INORGANIC MERCURY

For inorganic mercury poisoning, treatment often begins with supportive care.
The person may receive:

    * Fluids by IV (into a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Activated charcoal, a medicine that soaks up many substances from the stomach
    * Medicines called chelators to remove mercury from the blood 

ORGANIC MERCURY

Treatment for exposure to organic mercury usually consists of medicines called
chelators. These remove mercury from the blood and move it away from the brain
and kidneys. Often, these medicines will have to be used for weeks to months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Breathing in a small amount of elemental mercury will cause very few, if any,
long-term side effects. However, breathing in larger amounts can lead to a
long hospital stay. Permanent lung damage is likely. There may be brain
damage. Very large exposures will likely cause death.

A large overdose of inorganic mercury may cause massive blood and fluid loss,
kidney failure, and likely death.

Chronic brain damage from organic mercury poisoning is difficult to treat.
Some people never recover, but there has been some success in people who
receive chelation treatment.

## References

Mahajan PV. Heavy metal intoxication. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 738.

Theobald JL, Mycyk MB. Iron and heavy metals. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 151.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Mercury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mercury_thumb.jpg)Mercury _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

