Link: https://medlineplus.gov/scabies.html    
                                Description: Scabies is an itchy skin condition caused by the microscopic mite Sarcoptes scabei. Common all over the world and can affect anyone, learn treatments.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Scabies

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/scabies.html

#  Scabies

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Scabies is an itchy skin condition caused by the microscopic mite Sarcoptes
scabei. It is common all over the world, and can affect anyone. Scabies
spreads quickly in crowded conditions where there is frequent skin-to-skin
contact between people. Hospitals, child-care centers, and nursing homes are
examples. Scabies can easily infect sex partners and other household members.
Sharing clothes, towels, and bedding can sometimes spread scabies. This can
happen much more easily when the infested person has crusted scabies. You
cannot get scabies from a pet. Pets get a different mite infection called
mange.

Symptoms are

    * Pimple-like irritations or a rash 
    * Intense itching, especially at night
    * Sores caused by scratching 

Your health care provider diagnoses scabies by looking at the skin rash and
finding burrows in the skin.

Several lotions are available to treat scabies. The infected person's clothes,
bedding and towels should be washed in hot water and dried in a hot dryer.
Treatment is also recommended for household members and sexual partners.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Scabies (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Scabies: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Scabies: Overview (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Symptoms

    * Scabies: Disease Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Scabies Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Scabies: Prevention and Control (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Scabies: Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Scabies: Workplace Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Scabies (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Images

    * Scabies (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Scabies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Prevalence and associated factors of scabies among schoolchildren in Dabat district,...
    * Article: The prevalence of scabies, pyoderma and other communicable dermatoses in the...
    * Article: A baby with a widespread itchy rash.
    * Scabies -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Scabies (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Scabies Treatment (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Scabies (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Scabies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scabies.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Scabies

## Related Health Topics

    * Parasitic Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Scabies is the National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 6 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

