Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002474.htm    
                                Description: Mercuric chloride is a very poisonous form of mercury. It is a type of mercury salt. There are different types of mercury poisonings. This article discusses poisoning from swallowing mercuric chloride.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mercuric chloride poisoning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002474.htm

# Mercuric chloride poisoning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mercuric chloride is a very poisonous form of mercury. It is a type of mercury
salt. There are different types of mercury poisonings. This article discusses
poisoning from swallowing mercuric chloride.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Mercuric chloride

## Where Found

Mercuric chloride may be found in some:

    * Antiseptics
    * Dry cell batteries

Note: This list may not be all inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of mercuric chloride poisoning include:

    * Abdominal pain (severe)
    * Breathing difficulty (severe)
    * Decreased urine output (may stop completely)
    * Diarrhea (bloody)
    * Drooling
    * Metallic taste
    * Mouth lesions (sores)
    * Pain in the throat and mouth (severe)
    * Shock (extremely low blood pressure)
    * Swelling in the throat (may be severe)
    * Vomiting, including blood 

## Home Care

Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by Poison Control or a health care professional. If clothing is
contaminated with the poison, try to safely remove it while protecting
yourself from contact with the poison.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The person may
receive:

    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Camera down the throat (endoscopy) to see burns in the food pipe (esophagus) and stomach
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * Medicines called chelators to remove mercury from the bloodstream and tissues, which may reduce long-term injury 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This substance is very poisonous. How well the person does often depends on
what symptoms occur within the first 10 to 15 minutes after swallowing it and
how quickly treatment is received. Kidney dialysis (filtration) through a
machine may be needed if the kidneys do not recover after acute mercury
poisoning. Kidney failure and death can occur, even with small doses.

If the poisoning has occurred slowly over time, any brain damage may be
permanent.

## References

Theobald JL, Mycyk MB. Iron and heavy metals. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 151.

Tokar EJ, Boyd WA, Freedman JH, Waalkes MP. Toxic effects of metals. In:
Klaassen CD, Watkins JB, eds. _Casarett and Doull's Essentials of Toxicology._
3rd ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill Medical; 2015:chap 23.

## Review Date 12/20/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Mercury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mercury_thumb.jpg)Mercury _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

