Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000607.htm    
                                Description: Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord. This covering is called the meninges.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumococcal meningitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000607.htm

# Pneumococcal meningitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningitis is an infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal
cord. This covering is called the meninges.

Bacteria are one type of germ that can cause meningitis. The pneumococcal
bacteria is one kind of bacteria that causes meningitis.

## Causes

Pneumococcal meningitis is caused by _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ bacteria (also
called pneumococcus, or _S pneumoniae_ ). This type of bacteria is the most
common cause of bacterial meningitis in adults. It is the second most common
cause of meningitis in children older than age 2.

Risk factors include:

    * Alcohol use
    * Diabetes
    * History of meningitis
    * Infection of a heart valve with _S pneumoniae_
    * Injury or trauma to the head
    * Meningitis in which there is leakage of spinal fluid
    * Recent ear infection with _S pneumoniae_
    * Recent pneumonia with _S pneumoniae_
    * Recent upper respiratory infection
    * Spleen removal or a spleen that does not function

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually come on quickly, and may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Mental status changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
    * Severe headache
    * Stiff neck 

Other symptoms that can occur with this disease:

    * Agitation
    * Bulging fontanelles in infants
    * Decreased consciousness
    * Poor feeding or irritability in children
    * Rapid breathing
    * Unusual posture, with the head and neck arched backwards (opisthotonos)

Pneumococcal meningitis is an important cause of fever in infants.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Questions will focus on
symptoms and possible exposure to someone who might have the same symptoms,
such as a stiff neck and fever.

If the provider thinks meningitis is possible, a lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
will likely be done. This is to remove a sample of spinal fluid for testing.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the head
    * Gram stain, other special stains

## Treatment

Antibiotics will be started as soon as possible. Ceftriaxone is one of the
most commonly used antibiotics.

If the antibiotic is not working and the provider suspects antibiotic
resistance, vancomycin or rifampin are used. Sometimes, corticosteroids are
used, especially in children.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Meningitis is a dangerous infection and it can be deadly. The sooner it is
treated, the better the chance for recovery. Young children and adults over
age 50 have the highest risk for death.

## Possible Complications

Long-term complications may include:

    * Brain damage
    * Buildup of fluid between the skull and brain (subdural effusion)
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling (hydrocephalus)
    * Hearing loss
    * Seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if
you suspect meningitis in a young child who has the following symptoms:

    * Feeding problems
    * High-pitched cry
    * Irritability
    * Persistent unexplained fever

Call the local emergency number if you develop any of the serious symptoms
listed above. Meningitis can quickly become a life-threatening illness.

## Prevention

Early treatment of pneumonia and ear infections caused by pneumococcus may
decrease the risk of meningitis. There are also two effective vaccines
available to prevent pneumococcus infection.

The following people should be vaccinated, according to current
recommendations:

    * Children
    * Adults age 65 and older
    * People at high risk for pneumococcus infection

## Alternative Names

Pneumococcal meningitis; Pneumococcus - meningitis

## Images

    * ![Pneumococci organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1054t.jpg)Pneumococci organism
    * ![Pneumococcal pneumonia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2928t.jpg)Pneumococcal pneumonia

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Bacterial meningitis.
www.cdc.gov/meningitis/bacterial.html. Updated January 25, 2017. Accessed
October 8, 2018.

Tunkel AR, Van de Beek D, Scheld WM. Acute meningitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 89.

Wood JB, Peters TR. Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus). In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 182.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![Infecciones por
neumococo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PneumococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Pneumococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

