Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000456.htm    
                                Description: SjÃ¶gren syndrome is an autoimmune disorder in which the glands that produce tears and saliva are destroyed. This causes dry mouth and dry eyes. The condition may affect other parts of the body, including    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

SjÃ¶gren syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000456.htm

# SjÃ¶gren syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

SjÃ¶gren syndrome is an autoimmune disorder in which the glands that produce
tears and saliva are destroyed. This causes dry mouth and dry eyes. The
condition may affect other parts of the body, including the kidneys and lungs.

## Causes

The cause of SjÃ¶gren syndrome is unknown. It is an autoimmune disorder. This
means the body attacks healthy tissue by mistake. The syndrome occurs most
often in women ages 40 to 50. It is rare in children.

Primary SjÃ¶gren syndrome is defined as dry eyes and dry mouth without another
autoimmune disorder.

Secondary SjÃ¶gren syndrome occurs along with another autoimmune disorder,
such as:

    * Rheumatoid arthritis (RA)
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Scleroderma
    * Polymyositis
    * Hepatitis C can affect the salivary glands and looks like SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * IgG4 disease can look like Sjogren syndrome and should be considered

## Symptoms

Dry eyes and dry mouth are the most common symptoms of this syndrome.

Eye symptoms:

    * Itching eyes
    * Feeling that something is in the eye

Mouth and throat symptoms:

    * Difficulty swallowing or eating dry foods
    * Loss of sense of taste
    * Problems speaking
    * Thick or stringy saliva
    * Mouth sores or pain
    * Teeth decay and gum inflammation
    * Hoarseness

Other symptoms may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Change in the color of hands or feetÂ with cold exposure (Raynaud phenomenon)
    * Joint pain or joint swelling
    * Swollen glands
    * Skin rash
    * Numbness and pain due to neuropathy
    * Cough and shortness of breath due to lung disease
    * Irregular heartbeatÂ 
    * Nausea and heartburn
    * Vaginal dryness or painful urination

## Exams and Tests

A complete physical exam will be done. The exam reveals dry eyes and dry
mouth. There may be mouth sores, decayed teeth or gum inflammation. This
occurs because of the mouth dryness. Your health care provider will look in
your mouth for fungus infection (candida).Â Skin may show a rash, the lung
exam may be abnormal, the abdomen will be palpated for liver enlargement. The
joints will be examined for arthritis. The neuro exam will look for deficits.

You may have the following tests done:

    * Complete blood chemistry with liver enzymes 
    * Complete blood count with differential
    * Urinalysis
    * Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) test
    * Anti-Ro/SSA and anti-La/SSB antibodies
    * Rheumatoid factor
    * Test for cryoglobulins
    * Complement levels
    * Protein electrophoresis
    * Test for hepatitis C and HIV (if at risk)
    * Thyroid tests
    * Schirmer test of tear production
    * Imaging of the salivary gland: by ultrasound or by MRI
    * Salivary gland biopsy
    * Skin biopsy if a rash is present
    * Examination of the eyesÂ by an ophthalmologist
    * Chest x-ray

## Treatment

The goal is to relieve symptoms.

    * Dry eyes may be treated with artificial tears, eye-lubricating ointments, or cyclosporine liquid.
    * If Candida is present, it may be treated with sugar-free miconazole or nystatin preparations.
    * Tiny plugs can be placed in the tear drainage ducts to help the tears stay on the surface of the eye.

Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) similar to those used for RA
may improve the symptoms of SjÃ¶gren syndrome. These include tumor necrosis
factor (TNF) inhibiting drugs such as Enbrel, Humira or Remicaide.

Some things you can do to ease symptoms include:

    * Sip water throughout the day
    * Chew sugarless gum
    * Avoid medicines that can cause mouth dryness, such as antihistamines and decongestants
    * Avoid alcohol

Talk with your dentist about:

    * Mouth rinses to replace minerals in your teeth
    * Saliva substitutes
    * Drugs that help your salivary glands make more saliva

To prevent dental decay caused by mouth dryness:

    * Brush and floss your teeth often
    * Visit the dentist for regular checkups and cleanings

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease is most often not life-threatening. The outcome depends on what
other diseases you have.

There is a higher risk for lymphoma and early death when SjÃ¶gren syndrome has
been very active for a long time, as well as in people with vasculitis, low
complements, and cryoglobulins.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Damage to the eye
    * Dental cavities
    * Kidney failure (rare)
    * Lymphoma
    * Pulmonary disease
    * Vasculitis (rare)
    * Neuropathy
    * Bladder inflammation

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of SjÃ¶gren syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Xerostomia - SjÃ¶gren syndrome; Keratoconjunctivitis sicca - SjÃ¶gren; Sicca
syndrome

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Baer AN, Alevizos I. SjÃ¶gren syndrome. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman
AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 147.

Mariette X. SjÃ¶gren syndrome. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 268.

Seror R, Bootsma H, Saraux A, et al. Defining disease activity states and
clinically meaningful improvement in primary SjÃ¶gren's syndrome with EULAR
primary SjÃ¶gren's syndrome disease activity (ESSDAI) and patient-reported
indexes (ESSPRI). _Ann Rheum Dis_. 2016;75(2):382-389. PMID: 25480887
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25480887.

Singh AG, Singh S, Matteson EL. Rate, risk factors and causes of mortality in
patients with SjÃ¶gren's syndrome: a systematic review and meta-analysis of
cohort studies. _Rheumatology (Oxford)_. 2016;55(3):450-460. PMID: 26412810
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26412810.

Turner MD. Oral manifestations of systemic diseases. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 14.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![SÃ­ndrome de
SjÃ¶gren](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SjogrensSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Sjogren's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

