Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003548.htm    
                                Description: Rheumatoid factor (RF) is a blood test that measures the amount of the RF antibody in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rheumatoid factor (RF)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003548.htm

# Rheumatoid factor (RF)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rheumatoid factor (RF) is a blood test that measures the amount of the RF
antibody in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located on the inside of the
elbow or the back of the hand.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin.

    * The blood collects in a small glass tube called a pipette, or onto a slide or test strip.
    * A bandage is put over the spot to stop any bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time, you do not need to take special steps before this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often used to help diagnose rheumatoid arthritis or SjÃ¶gren
syndrome.

## Normal Results

Results are usually reported in one of two ways:

    * Value, normal less than 15 IU/mL
    * Titer, normal less than 1:80 (1 to 80) 

If the result is above the normal level, it is positive. A low number
(negative result) most often means you do not have rheumatoid arthritis or
SjÃ¶gren syndrome. However, some people who do have these conditions still
have a negative or low RF.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means the test is positive, which means a higher level of
RF has been detected in your blood.

    * Most people with rheumatoid arthritis or SjÃ¶gren syndrome have positive RF tests.
    * The higher the level, the more likely one of these conditions is present. There are also other tests for these disorders that help make the diagnosis.
    * Not everyone with a higher level of RF has rheumatoid arthritis or SjÃ¶gren syndrome. 

Your provider should also do another blood test (anti-CCP antibody), to help
diagnose rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Anti-CCP antibody is more specific for RA
than RF. A positive test for CCP antibody means RA is probably the correct
diagnosis.

People with the following diseases may also have higher levels of RF:

    * Hepatitis C
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Dermatomyositis and polymyositis
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Mixed cryoglobulinemia
    * Mixed connective tissue disease 

Higher-than-normal levels of RF may be seen in people with other medical
problems. However, these higher RF levels cannot be used to diagnose these
other conditions:

    * AIDS, hepatitis, influenza, infectious mononucleosis, and other viral infections
    * Certain kidney diseases
    * Endocarditis, tuberculosis, and other bacterial infections
    * Parasite infections
    * Leukemia, multiple myeloma, and other cancers
    * Chronic lung disease
    * Chronic liver disease 

In some cases, people who are healthy and have no other medical problem will
have a higher-than-normal RF level.

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Aletaha D, Neogi T, Silman AJ, et al. 2010 Rheumatoid arthritis classification
criteria: an American College of Rheumatology/European League Against
Rheumatism collaborative initiative. _Ann Rheum Dis_. 2010;69(9):1580-1588.
PMID: 20699241 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20699241.

Andrade F, Darrah E, Rosen A. Autoantibodies in rheumatoid arthritis. In:
Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and
Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 56.

Hoffmann MH, Trouw LA, Steiner G. Autoantibodies in rheumatoid arthritis. In:
Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH,
eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 99.

Mason JC. Rheumatic diseases and the cardiovascular system. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann, DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 94.

Pisetsky DS. Laboratory testing in the rheumatic diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 257.

von MÃ¼hlen CA, Fritzler MJ, Chan EKL. Clinical and laboratory evaluation of
system rheumatic diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![SÃ­ndrome de
SjÃ¶gren](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SjogrensSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Sjogren's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

