Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003501.htm    
                                Description: The Schirmer test determines whether the eye produces enough tears to keep it moist.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Schirmer test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003501.htm

# Schirmer test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Schirmer test determines whether the eye produces enough tears to keep it
moist.

## How the Test is Performed

The eye doctor will place the end of a special paper strip inside the lower
eyelid of each eye. Both eyes are tested at the same time. Before the test,
you will be given numbing eye drops to prevent your eyes from tearing due to
irritation from the paper strips.

The exact procedure may vary. Most often, the eyes are closed for 5 minutes.
Close your eyes gently. Closing the eyes tightly or rubbing the eyes during
the test can cause abnormal test results.

After 5 minutes, the doctor removes the paper and measures how much of it has
become moist.

Sometimes the test is done without numbing drops to test for other types of
tear problems.

The phenol red thread test is similar to the Schirmer test, except that red
strips of special thread are used instead of paper strips. Numbing drops are
not needed. The test takes 15 seconds.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked to remove your glasses or contact lenses before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people find that holding the paper against the eye is irritating or
mildly uncomfortable. The numbing drops often sting at first.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used when the eye doctor suspects you have dry eye. Symptoms
include dryness of the eyes or excessive watering of the eyes.

## Normal Results

More than 10 mm of moisture on the filter paper after 5 minutes is a sign of
normal tear production. Both eyes normally release the same amount of tears.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Dry eyes may result from:

    * Aging
    * Swelling or inflammation of the eyelids (blepharitis)
    * Climate changes
    * Corneal ulcers and infections
    * Eye infections (for example, conjunctivitis)
    * Laser vision correction
    * Leukemia
    * Lymphoma (cancer of the lymph system)
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Previous eyelid or facial surgery
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Vitamin A deficiency

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Considerations

DO NOT rub the eyes for at least 30 minutes after the test. Leave contact
lenses out for at least 2 hours after the test.

Even though the Schirmer test has been available for more than 100 years,
several studies show that it does not properly identify a large group of
people with dry eye. Newer and better tests are being developed. One test
measures a molecule called lactoferrin. People with low tear production and
dry eye have low levels of this molecule.

Another test measures tear osmolarity, or how concentrated the tears are. The
higher the osmolarity, the more likely it is that you have dry eye.

## Alternative Names

Tear test; Tearing test; Dry eye test; Basal secretion test; SjÃ¶gren -
Schirmer; Schirmer's test

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Schirmer's test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9888t.jpg)Schirmer's test

## References

Akpek EK, Amescua G, Farid M, et al; American Academy of Ophthalmology
Preferred Practice Pattern Cornea and External Disease Panel. Dry eye syndrome
Preferred Practice Pattern. _Ophthalmology_. 2019;126(1):286-334. PMID:
30366798 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30366798.

Bohm KJ, Djalilian AR, Pflugfelder SC, Starr CE. Dry eye. In: Mannis MJ,
Holland EJ, eds. _Cornea: Fundamentals, Diagnosis and Management_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 33.

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al. Comprehensive adult medical eye
evaluation Preferred Practice Pattern guidelines. _Ophthalmology_.
2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![SÃ­ndrome de
SjÃ¶gren](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SjogrensSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Sjogren's
Syndrome _Read more_

![Tears](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tears_thumb.jpg)Tears _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

