Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001040.htm    
                                Description: Salivary gland tumors are abnormal cells growing in the gland or in the tubes (ducts) that drain the salivary glands.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Salivary gland tumors

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001040.htm

# Salivary gland tumors

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Salivary gland tumors are abnormal cells growing in the gland or in the tubes
(ducts) that drain the salivary glands.

## Causes

The salivary glands are located around the mouth. They produce saliva, which
moistens food to help with chewing and swallowing.Â Saliva also helps to
protect teeth from decay.

There are 3 main pairs of salivary glands. The parotid glands are the largest.
They are located in each cheek in front of the ears. Two submandibular glands
are under the floor of the mouth under both sides of the jaw. Two sublingual
glands are under the floor of the mouth. There are also hundreds of small
salivary glands lining the rest of the mouth.

Salivary glands empty saliva into the mouth through ducts that open at various
places in the mouth.

Salivary gland tumors are rare. Swelling of the salivary glands is mostly due
to:

    * Major abdominal and hip repair surgeries
    * Cirrhosis of the liver
    * Infections
    * Other cancers
    * Salivary duct stones
    * Salivary gland infections
    * Dehydration
    * Sarcoidosis
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome

The most common type of salivary gland tumor is a slow-growing noncancerous
(benign) tumor of the parotid gland. The tumor gradually increases the size of
the gland. Some of these tumors can be cancerous (malignant).

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:Â

    * Firm, usually painless swelling in one of the salivary glands (in front of the ears, under the chin, or on the floor of the mouth). The swelling gradually increases.
    * Difficulty moving one side of the face, known as facial nerve palsy.

## Exams and Tests

An examination by a health care provider or dentist shows a larger than normal
salivary gland, usually one of the parotid glands.

Tests may include:

    * X-rays of the salivary gland (called a sialogram) to look for a tumor
    * Ultrasound, CT scan or MRI to confirm that there is a growth, and to see if the cancer has spread to lymph nodes in the neck
    * Salivary gland biopsy or fine needle aspiration to determine whether the tumor is benign (noncancerous) or malignant (cancerous)

## Treatment

Surgery is most often done to remove the affected salivary gland. If the tumor
is benign, no other treatment is needed.

Radiation therapy or extensive surgery may be needed if the tumor is
cancerous. Chemotherapy may be used when the disease has spread beyond the
salivary glands.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most salivary gland tumors are noncancerous and slow growing. Removing the
tumor with surgery often cures the condition. In rare cases, the tumor is
cancerous and further treatment is needed.

## Possible Complications

Complications from the cancer or its treatment may include:

    * Spread of the cancer to other organs (metastasis).
    * In rare cases, injury during surgery to the nerve that controls movement of the face.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Pain when eating or chewing
    * You notice a lump in the mouth, under the jaw, or in the neck that does not go away in 2 to 3 weeks or is getting larger 

## Alternative Names

Tumor - salivary duct

## Images

    * ![Head and neck glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9654t.jpg)Head and neck glands

## References

Jackson NM, Mitchell JL, Walvekar RR. Inflammatory disorders of the salivary
glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 85.

Markiewicz MR, Fernandes RP, Ord RA. Salivary gland disease. In: Fonseca RJ,
ed. _Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 3rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2018:chap 20.

National Cancer Institute website. Salivary gland cancer treatment (adult)
(PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/head-and-
neck/hp/adult/salivary-gland-treatment-pdq. Updated January 12, 2018. Accessed
January 15, 2018.

Saade RE, Bell DM, Hanna EY. Benign neoplasms of the salivary glands. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 86.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Salivary Gland
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandCancer_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Cancer _Read more_

![Salivary Gland
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandDisorder_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

