Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003812.htm    
                                Description: A sialogram is an x-ray of the salivary ducts and glands.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sialogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003812.htm

# Sialogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sialogram is an x-ray of the salivary ducts and glands.

The salivary glands are located on each side of the head, in the cheeks and
under the jaw. They release saliva into the mouth.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is performed in a hospital radiology department or a radiology
facility. The test is done by an x-ray technician. A radiologist interprets
the results. You may be given a medicine to make you calm before the
procedure.

You will be asked to lie on your back on the x-ray table. An x-ray is taken
before the contrast material is injected to check for blockages that might
prevent the contrast material from entering the ducts.

A catheter (a small flexible tube) is inserted through your mouth and into the
duct of the salivary gland. A special dye (contrast medium) is then injected
into the duct. This allows the duct to show up on the x-ray. X-rays will be
taken from several positions. The sialogram may be performed along with a CT
scan.

You may be given lemon juice to help you produce saliva. The x-rays are then
repeated to examine the drainage of the saliva into the mouth.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the health care provider if you are:

    * Pregnant
    * Allergic to x-ray contrast material or any iodine substance
    * Allergic to any drugs

You must sign a consent form. You will need to rinse your mouth with germ-
killing (antiseptic) solution before the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some discomfort or pressure when the contrast material is
injected into the ducts. The contrast material may taste unpleasant.

## Why the Test is Performed

A sialogram may be done when your provider thinks you might have a disorder of
the salivary ducts or glands.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may suggest:

    * Narrowing of the salivary ducts 
    * Salivary gland infection or inflammation 
    * Salivary duct stones
    * Salivary duct tumor

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored and regulated to provide
the minimum amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the risk is low compared with the potential benefits.
Pregnant women should not undergo this test. Alternatives include tests like
an MRI scan that do not involve x-rays.

## Alternative Names

Ptyalography; Sialography

## Images

    * ![Sialography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9890t.jpg)Sialography

## References

Miloro M, Kolokythas A. Diagnosis and management of salivary gland disorders.
In: Hupp JR, Ellis E, Tucker MR, eds. _Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial
Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 21.

Miller-Thomas M. Diagnostic imaging and fine-needle aspiration of the salivary
glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 84.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Salivary Gland
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandCancer_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Cancer _Read more_

![Salivary Gland
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandDisorder_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Disorders _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

