Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002084.htm    
                                Description: The eye will often flush out small objects, like eyelashes and sand, through blinking and tearing. DO NOT rub the eye if there is something in it. Wash your hands before examining the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye - foreign object in

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002084.htm

# Eye - foreign object in

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The eye will often flush out small objects, like eyelashes and sand, through
blinking and tearing. DO NOT rub the eye if there is something in it. Wash
your hands before examining the eye.

![Blinking](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200007t.gif)Watch this
video about:Blinking

Examine the eye in a well-lighted area. To find the object, look up and down,
then from side to side.

    * If you can't find the object, grasp the lower eyelid and gently pull down on it to look inside the lower eyelid. To look inside the upper lid, you can place a cotton-tipped swab on the outside of the upper lid and gently fold the lid over the cotton swab.
    * If the object is on an eyelid, try to gently flush it out with water or eye drops. If that does not work, try touching a second cotton-tipped swab to the object to remove it.
    * If the object is on the white of the eye, try gently rinsing the eye with water or eye drops. Or, you can GENTLY touch a cotton swap to the object to try to remove it. If the object is on the colored part of the eye, DO NOT attempt to remove it. Your eye may still feel scratchy or uncomfortable after removing an eyelashes or other tiny object. This should go away within a day or two. If you continue to have discomfort or blurred vision, get medical help. 

Contact your health care provider and DO NOT treat yourself if:

    * You have a lot of eye pain or sensitivity to light.
    * Your vision is decreased.
    * You have red or painful eyes.
    * You have flaking, discharge, or a sore on your eye or eyelid.
    * You have had trauma to your eye, or you have a bulging eye or a drooping eyelid.
    * Your dry eyes do not get better with self-care measures within a few days. 

If you have been hammering, grinding, or could have come in contact with metal
fragments, DO NOT attempt any removal. Go to the nearest emergency room
immediately.

## Alternative Names

Foreign body; Particle in the eye

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Eyelid eversion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19662t.jpg)Eyelid eversion
    * ![Foreign objects in eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9311t.jpg)Foreign objects in eye

## References

Crouch ER, Crouch ER, Grant TR. Ophthalmology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 17.

Engel K, Page M, Montezuma S, Cameron JD. Retinoblastoma. In: Tasman W, Jaeger
EA, eds. _Duane's Foundations of Clinical Ophthalmology_. 2013 ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2013:vol 3;chap 6.

Knoop KJ, Dennis WR. Ophthalmologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, ed. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 62.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 12/2/2017

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInjuries_thumb.jpg)Eye
Injuries _Read more_

![Foreign
Bodies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ForeignBodies_thumb.jpg)Foreign Bodies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

