Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001582.htm    
                                Description: A bezoar is a ball of swallowed foreign material most often composed of hair or fiber. It collects in the stomach and fails to pass through the intestines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bezoar

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001582.htm

# Bezoar

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bezoar is a ball of swallowed foreign material most often composed of hair
or fiber. It collects in the stomach and fails to pass through the intestines.

## Causes

Chewing on or eating hair or fuzzy materials (or indigestible materials such
as plastic bags) can lead to the formation of a bezoar. The rate is very low.
The risk is greater among people with intellectual disability or emotionally
disturbed children. Generally, bezoars are mostly seen in females aged 10 to
19.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Indigestion
    * Stomach upset or distress
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Diarrhea
    * Pain
    * Gastric ulcers 

## Exams and Tests

The child may have a lump in the abdomen that can be felt by the health care
provider. A barium swallow x-ray will show the mass in the stomach. Sometimes,
a scope is used (endoscopy) to directly view the bezoar.

## Treatment

The bezoar may need to be surgically removed, especially if it is large. In
some cases, small bezoars may be removed through a scope placed through the
mouth into the stomach. This is similar to an EGD procedure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery is expected.

## Possible Complications

Persistent vomiting can lead to dehydration.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you suspect your child has a bezoar.

## Prevention

If your child has had a hair bezoar in the past, trim the child's hair short
so they cannot put the ends in the mouth. Keep indigestible materials away
from a child who has a tendency to put items in the mouth.

Be sure to remove the child's access to fuzzy or fiber-filled materials.

## Alternative Names

Trichobezoar; Hairball

## References

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Foreign
bodies and bezoars. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC,
Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 360.

Pfau PR, Hancock SM. Foreign bodies, bezoars, and caustic ingestions. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 27.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foreign
Bodies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ForeignBodies_thumb.jpg)Foreign Bodies
_Read more_

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

