Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002764.htm    
                                Description: Button batteries are tiny, round batteries. They are commonly used in watches and hearing aids. Children often swallow these batteries or put them up their nose. They can be breathed in more deeply (inhaled)    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Button batteries

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002764.htm

# Button batteries

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Button batteries are tiny, round batteries. They are commonly used in watches
and hearing aids. Children often swallow these batteries or put them up their
nose. They can be breathed in more deeply (inhaled) from the nose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

Also, you can call the National Button Battery Ingestion Hotline
(800-498-8666).

## Where Found

These devices use button batteries:

    * Calculators
    * Cameras
    * Hearing aids
    * Penlights
    * Watches

## Symptoms

If a person puts the battery up their nose and breathes it further in, these
symptoms may occur:

    * Breathing problems
    * Cough
    * Pneumonia (if the battery goes unnoticed)
    * Possible complete blockage of the airway 
    * Wheezing

A swallowed battery may cause no symptoms at all. But if it becomes stuck in
the food pipe (esophagus) or stomach, these symptoms may occur:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloody stools
    * Cardiovascular collapse (shock)
    * Chest pain
    * Drooling
    * Nausea or vomiting (possibly bloody)
    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Painful or difficult swallowing

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Time the battery was swallowed
    * Size of the swallowed battery

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Also, you can call the National Button Battery Ingestion Hotline
(800-498-8666).

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated.

The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Bronchoscopy \-- camera placed down the throat into the lungs to remove the battery
    * Direct laryngoscopy \-- (a procedure to look into the voice box and vocal cords) or surgery right away if the battery was breathed in and is causing a life-threatening airway blockage
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing) for more serious cases
    * Endoscopy \-- camera to remove the battery if it was swallowed and is still in the esophagus or stomach
    * Fluids by vein (intravenous)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * X-rays to locate the battery

If the battery has passed through the stomach into the small intestine, the
usual treatment is to do another x-ray in 1 to 2 days to make sure the battery
is moving through the intestines.

The battery should continue to be followed with x-rays until it passes in the
stool. If nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain develop, it may mean that the
battery has caused a blockage of the intestines. If this happens, surgery may
be needed to remove the battery and reverse the blockage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most swallowed batteries pass through the stomach and intestines without
causing any serious damage.

How well someone does depends on the type of battery they swallowed and how
quickly they receive treatment. The faster medical help is given, the better
the chance for recovery.

Burns in the esophagus and stomach may result in ulcers and fluid leakage.
This can lead to serious infection and possibly surgery. Complications become
more likely the longer the battery is in contact with internal structures.

## Alternative Names

Swallowing batteries

## References

Mahajan PV. Heavy metal intoxication. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 720.

Munter DW. Esophageal foreign bodies. In: Roberts JR, ed. _Roberts and Hedges'
Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 39.

Schoem SR, Rosbe KW, Bearelly S. Aerodigestive foreign bodies and caustic
ingestions. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 207.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 10/9/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Foreign
Bodies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ForeignBodies_thumb.jpg)Foreign Bodies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

