Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007738.htm    
                                Description: If you breathe a foreign object into your nose, mouth, or respiratory tract, it may become stuck. This can cause breathing problems or choking. The area around the object also can become inflamed or infected.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foreign object - inhaled

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007738.htm

# Foreign object - inhaled

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you breathe a foreign object into your nose, mouth, or respiratory tract,
it may become stuck. This can cause breathing problems or choking. The area
around the object also can become inflamed or infected.

## Considerations

Children ages 6 months to 3 years are the age group most likely to breathe in
(inhale) a foreign object. These items may include nuts, coins, toys,
balloons, or other small items or foods.

## Causes

Young children can easily inhale small foods (nuts, seeds, or popcorn) and
objects (buttons, beads, or parts of toys) when playing or eating. This may
cause a partial or total airway blockage.

Young children have smaller airways than adults. They also can't move enough
air when coughing to dislodge an object. Therefore, a foreign object is more
likely to get stuck and block the passage.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Choking
    * Coughing
    * Difficulty speaking
    * No breathing or breathing trouble (respiratory distress)
    * Turning blue, red or white in the face
    * Wheezing
    * Chest, throat or neck pain

Sometimes, only minor symptoms are seen at first. The object may be forgotten
until symptoms such as inflammation or infection develop.

## First Aid

First aid may be performed on an infant or older child who has inhaled an
object. First aid measures include:

    * Back blows or chest compressions for infants
    * Abdominal thrusts for older children

Be sure you are trained to perform these first aid measures.

Any child who may have inhaled an object should be seen by a doctor. A child
with a total airway blockage requires emergency medical help.

If choking or coughing goes away, and the child does not have any other
symptoms, he or she should be watched for signs and symptoms of infection or
irritation. X-rays may be needed.

A procedure called bronchoscopy may be needed to confirm the diagnosis and to
remove the object. Antibiotics and breathing therapy may be needed if an
infection develops.

## DO NOT

DO NOT force feed infants who are crying or breathing rapidly. This may cause
the baby to inhale liquid or solid food into their airway.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a health care provider or local emergency number (such as 911) if you
think a child has inhaled a foreign object.

## Prevention

Preventive measures include:

    * Keep small objects out of the reach of young children.
    * Discourage talking, laughing, or playing while food is in the mouth.
    * Do not give potentially dangerous foods such as hot dogs, whole grapes, nuts, popcorn, food with bones, or hard candy to children under age 3.
    * Teach children to avoid placing foreign objects into their noses and other body openings.  
  

## Alternative Names

Obstructed airway; Blocked airway

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Heimlich maneuver on adult](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1098t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on adult
    * ![Heimlich maneuver on an adult](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18152t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on an adult
    * ![Heimlich maneuver on oneself](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1100t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on oneself
    * ![Heimlich maneuver on infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1099t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on infant
    * ![Heimlich maneuver on infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18156t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on infant
    * ![Heimlich maneuver on conscious child](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18153t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on conscious child
    * ![Heimlich maneuver on conscious child](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18154t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on conscious child

## References

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Upper airway obstruction. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2015:chap 135.

Schroeder JW, Holinger LD. Foreign bodies in the airway. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 387.

Shah SR, Little DC. Ingestion of foreign bodies. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP,
Ostlie DJ, eds. _Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 11.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA.: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.  
  

## Review Date 4/4/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Foreign
Bodies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ForeignBodies_thumb.jpg)Foreign Bodies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

