Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000036.htm    
                                Description: If you swallow a foreign object, it can get stuck along the gastrointestinal (GI) tract from the esophagus (swallowing tube) to the colon (large intestine). This can lead to a blockage or tear in the GI    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foreign object - swallowed

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000036.htm

# Foreign object - swallowed

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you swallow a foreign object, it can get stuck along the gastrointestinal
(GI) tract from the esophagus (swallowing tube) to the colon (large
intestine). This can lead to a blockage or tear in the GI tract.

## Considerations

Children ages 6 months to 3 years are the age group most likely to swallow a
foreign object.

These items may include coins, marbles, pins, pencil erasers, buttons, beads,
or other small items or foods.

Adults can also swallow foreign objects due to intoxication, mental illness,
or dementia. Older adults who have swallowing problems may accidentally
swallow their dentures. Construction workers often swallow nails or screws,
and tailors and dressmakers often swallow pins or buttons.

## Causes

Young children like to explore things with their mouths and may swallow an
object on purpose or by accident. If the object passes through the food pipe
and into the stomach without getting stuck, it will probably pass through the
entire GI tract. Sharp, pointed, or caustic objects such as batteries can
cause serious problems.

Objects will often pass through the GI tract within a week. In most cases, the
object passes through without harming the person.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Choking
    * Coughing
    * Wheezing
    * Noisy breathing
    * No breathing or breathing trouble (respiratory distress)
    * Chest, throat, or neck pain
    * Turning blue, red, or white in the face
    * Difficulty swallowing saliva

Sometimes, only minor symptoms are seen at first. The object may be forgotten
until symptoms such as inflammation or infection develop.

## First Aid

Any child who is believed to have swallowed a foreign object should be watched
for:

    * Pain (mouth, throat, chest, or abdominal)
    * Fever
    * Drooling
    * Abnormal breathing
    * Vomiting
    * Local tenderness

Stools (bowel movements) should be checked to see if the object has passed
through the body. This will take several days and may sometimes cause rectal
or anal bleeding.

A procedure called endoscopy may be needed to confirm if the child has
swallowed an object and to remove it. Endoscopy will be done if the object is
long or sharp, or is a magnet or disk battery. It will also be done if the
child has drooling, breathing difficulty, fever, vomiting, or pain. X-rays may
also be done.

In severe cases, surgery may be needed to remove the object.

## DO NOT

DO NOT force feed infants who are crying or breathing rapidly. This may cause
the baby to inhale liquid or solid food into their airway.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a health care provider or local emergency number (such as 911) if you
think a child has swallowed a foreign object.

## Prevention

Preventive measures include:

    * Cut food into small pieces for young children. Teach them how to chew well. 
    * Discourage talking, laughing, or playing while food is in the mouth.
    * Do not give potentially dangerous foods such as hot dogs, whole grapes, nuts, popcorn, food with bones, or hard candy to children under age 3.
    * Keep small objects out of the reach of young children.
    * Teach children to avoid placing foreign objects into their noses and other body openings.

## Alternative Names

Foreign body ingestion

## References

Khan S, Orenstein SR. Foreign bodies in the esophagus. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 327.

Pfau PR, Hancock SM. Foreign bodies, bezoars, and caustic ingestions. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 27.

Schoem SR, Rosbe KW, Bearelly S. Aerodigestive foreign bodies and caustic
ingestions. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 207.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 4/4/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Choking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Choking_thumb.jpg)Choking _Read
more_

![Foreign
Bodies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ForeignBodies_thumb.jpg)Foreign Bodies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

