Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002137.htm    
                                Description: A splinter is a thin piece of material (such as wood, glass, or metal) that gets embedded just below the top layer of your skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Splinter removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002137.htm

# Splinter removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A splinter is a thin piece of material (such as wood, glass, or metal) that
gets embedded just below the top layer of your skin.

![Splinter removal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19624.jpg)

## Information

To remove a splinter, first wash your hands with soap and water. Use tweezers
to grab the splinter. Carefully pull it out at the same angle it went in.

If the splinter is under the skin or hard to grab:

    * Sterilize a pin or needle by soaking it in rubbing alcohol or placing the tip in a flame.
    * Wash your hands with soap.
    * Use the pin to gently remove skin over the splinter.
    * Then use the tip of the pin to lift the end of the splinter out.
    * You may need to use tweezers to pull out the splinter after you lift it. 

After the splinter is out, wash the area with soap and water. Pat the area
dry. (Don't rub.) Apply antibiotic ointment. Bandage the cut if it is likely
to get dirty.

See your health care provider if there is inflammation or pus, or if the
splinter is deeply embedded. Also, seek medical attention if the splinter is
in your eye or close to it.

![Splinter removal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9944.jpg)

## Images

    * ![Splinter removal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19624t.jpg)Splinter removal
    * ![Splinter removal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9944t.jpg)Splinter removal

## References

Auerbach PS. Procedures. In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Medicine for the Outdoors_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:444-445.

O'Connor AM, Canares TL. Foreign-body removal. In: Olympia RP, O'Neill RM,
Silvis ML, eds. _Urgent Care Medicine Secrets_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 48.

Stone DB, Scordino DJ. Foreign body removal. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 36.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Foreign
Bodies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ForeignBodies_thumb.jpg)Foreign Bodies
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

