Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000037.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses first aid for a foreign object placed into the nose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foreign body in the nose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000037.htm

# Foreign body in the nose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses first aid for a foreign object placed into the nose.

## Considerations

Curious young children may insert small objects into their nose in a normal
attempt to explore their own bodies. Objects placed in the nose may include
food, seeds, dried beans, small toys (such as marbles), crayon pieces,
erasers, paper wads, cotton, beads, button batteries, and disc magnets.

A foreign body in a child's nose can be there for a while without a parent
being aware of the problem. The object may only be discovered when visiting a
health care provider to find the cause of irritation, bleeding, infection, or
difficulty breathing.

## Symptoms

Symptoms that your child may have a foreign body in his or her nose include:

    * Difficulty breathing through the affected nostril
    * Feeling of something in the nose
    * Foul-smelling or bloody nasal discharge
    * Irritability, particularly in infants
    * Irritation or pain in the nose 

## First Aid

First aid steps include:

    * Have the person breathe through the mouth. The person should notÂ breathe in sharply. ThisÂ may force the object in further. 
    * Gently press and close the nostril that does NOT have the object inÂ it. Ask theÂ person to blow gently. This may help push the object out. Â Avoid blowing the nose too hard or repeatedly. 
    * If this method fails, get medical help. 

## DO NOT

    * DO NOT search the nose with cotton swabs or other tools. This may push the object further into the nose.
    * DO NOT use tweezers or other tools to remove an object that is stuck deep inside the nose.
    * DO NOT try to remove an object that you cannot see or one that is not easy to grasp. This can push the object farther in or cause damage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away for any of the following:

    * The person cannot breathe well
    * Bleeding occurs and continues for more than 2 or 3 minutes after you remove the foreign object, despite placing gentle pressure on the nose
    * An object is stuck in both nostrils
    * You cannot easily remove a foreign object from the person's nose
    * The object is sharp, is a button battery, or two paired disc magnets (one in each nostril)
    * You think an infection has developed in the nostril where the object is stuck

## Prevention

Prevention measures may include:

    * Cut food into appropriate sizes for small children.
    * Discourage talking, laughing, or playing while food is in the mouth.
    * Do not give foods such as hot dogs, whole grapes, nuts, popcorn, or hard candy to children under age 3.
    * Keep small objects out of the reach of young children.
    * Teach children to avoid placing foreign objects into their noses and other body openings.Â 

## Alternative Names

Something stuck in the nose; Objects in the nose

## Images

    * ![Nasal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9657t.jpg)Nasal anatomy

## References

Schroeder JW, Holinger LD. Foreign bodies in the airway. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 387.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

Yellen RF, Chi DH. Otolaryngology. Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 24.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Jesse Borke, MD,
FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical Services/Millard Fillmore
Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foreign
Bodies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ForeignBodies_thumb.jpg)Foreign Bodies
_Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

