Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002922.htm    
                                Description: Pyloroplasty is surgery to widen the opening in the lower part of the stomach (pylorus) so that stomach contents can empty into the small intestine (duodenum).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pyloroplasty

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002922.htm

# Pyloroplasty

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pyloroplasty is surgery to widen the opening in the lower part of the stomach
(pylorus) so that stomach contents can empty into the small intestine
(duodenum).

The pylorus is a thick, muscular area. When it thickens, food cannot pass
through.

## Description

The surgery is done while you are under general anesthesia (asleep and pain
free).

If you have open surgery, the surgeon:

    * Makes a large surgical cut in your belly to open the area.
    * Cuts through some of the thickened muscle so it becomes wider.
    * Closes the cut in a way that keeps the pylorus open. This allows the stomach to empty. 

Surgeons can also do this surgery using a laparoscope. A laparoscope is a tiny
camera that is inserted into your belly through a small cut. Video from the
camera will appear on a monitor in the operating room. The surgeon views the
monitor to do the surgery. During the surgery:

    * Three to five small cuts are made in your belly. The camera and other small tools will be inserted through these cuts.
    * Your belly will be filled with gas to allow the surgeon to see the area and perform the surgery with more room to work.
    * The pylorus is operated on as described above. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Pyloroplasty is used to treat complications inÂ people with peptic ulcers or
other stomach problems that cause a blockage of the stomach opening.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medications or breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery include:

    * Damage to the intestine
    * Hernia
    * Leakage of stomach contents
    * Long-term diarrhea
    * Malnutrition
    * Tear in the lining of nearby organs (mucosal perforation) 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What medicines you're taking, including medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

During the days before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinners. These include NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), and clopidogrel (Plavix).
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your doctor or nurse for help quitting. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Follow instructions about not eating and drinking.
    * Take the medicines your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

After surgery, the health care team will monitor your breathing, blood
pressure, temperature, and heart rate. Most people can go home within 24
hours.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover quickly and completely. The average hospital stay is 2 to
3 days. It's likely you can slowly begin a regular diet in a few weeks.

## Alternative Names

Peptic ulcer - pyloroplasty; PUD - pyloroplasty; Pyloric obstruction -
pyloroplastyÂ

## References

Chan FKL, Lau JYW. Peptic ulcer disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 53.

Teitelbaum EN, Hungness ES, Mahvi DM. Stomach. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

