Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002945.htm    
                                Description: Gastrectomy is surgery to remove part or all of the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastrectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002945.htm

# Gastrectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastrectomy is surgery to remove part or all of the stomach.

    * If only part of the stomach is removed, it is called partial gastrectomy
    * If the whole stomach is removed, it is called total gastrectomy 

## Description

The surgery is done while you are under general anesthesia (asleep and pain
free). The surgeon makes a cut in the abdomen and removes all or part of the
stomach, depending on the reason for the procedure.

Depending on what part of the stomach was removed, the intestine may need to
be reconnected to the remaining stomach (partial gastrectomy) or to the
esophagus (total gastrectomy).

Today, some surgeons perform gastrectomy using a camera. The surgery, which is
called laparoscopy is done with a few small surgical cuts. The advantages of
this surgery are a faster recovery, less pain, and only a few small cuts.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This surgery is used to treat stomach problems such as:

    * Bleeding
    * Inflammation
    * Cancer
    * Polyps (growth on the lining of the stomach) 

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines or breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery include:

    * Leak from connection to the intestine which can cause infection or abscess
    * The connection to the intestine narrows, causing blockage 

## Before the Procedure

If you are a smoker, you should stop smoking several weeks before surgery and
not start smoking again after surgery. Smoking slows recovery and increases
the risk of problems. Tell your health care provider if you need help
quitting.

Tell your surgeon or nurse:

    * If you are or might be pregnant
    * What medicines, vitamins, herbs, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription 

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinners. These include NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), and clopidegrel (Plavix).
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Prepare your home for when you go home after surgery. Set up your home to make your life easier and safer when you return. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Follow instructions about not eating and drinking.
    * Take the medicines your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

You may stay in hospital for 6 to10 days.

After surgery, there may be a tube in your nose which will help keep your
stomach empty. It is removed as soon as your bowels are working well.

Most people have pain from the surgery. You may receive a single medicine or a
combination of medicines to control your pain. Tell your providers when you
are having pain and if the medicines you are receiving control your pain.

How well you do after surgery depends on the reason for the surgery and your
condition.

Ask your surgeon if there are any activities you shouldn't do after you go
home. It may take several weeks for you to recover fully. While you are taking
narcotic pain medicines, you should not drive.

## Alternative Names

Surgery - stomach removal; Gastrectomy - total; Gastrectomy - partial; Stomach
cancer - gastrectomy

## Images

    * ![Stomach anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7100t.jpg)Gastrectomy - series

## References

Garvey EM, Heniford BT. Laparoscopic gastric surgery. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1509-1516.

Teitelbaum EN, Hungness ES, Mahvi DM. Stomach. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stomach
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachCancer_thumb.jpg)Stomach Cancer
_Read more_

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

