Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003883.htm    
                                Description: The stomach acid test is used to measure the amount of acid in the stomach. It also measures the level of acidity in stomach contents.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stomach acid test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003883.htm

# Stomach acid test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The stomach acid test is used to measure the amount of acid in the stomach. It
also measures the level of acidity in stomach contents.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done after you have not eaten for a while so fluid is all that
remains in the stomach. Stomach fluid is removed through a tube that is
inserted into the stomach through the esophagus (food pipe).

A hormone called gastrin may be injected into your body. This is done to test
the ability of the cells in the stomach to release acid. The stomach contents
are then removed and analyzed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked not to eat or drink for 4 to 6 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have some discomfort or a gagging feeling as the tube is inserted.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may recommend this test for the following reasons:

    * To check if anti-ulcer medicines are working
    * To check if material is coming back up from the small intestine
    * To test for the cause of ulcers

## Normal Results

The normal volume of the stomach fluid is 20 to 100 mL and the pH is acidic
(1.5 to 3.5). These numbers are converted to actual acid production in units
of milliequivalents per hour (mEq/hr) in some cases.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly depending on the lab doing the
test. Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * Increased levels of gastrin can cause increased release of acid and may lead to ulcers (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome).
    * The presence of bile in the stomach indicates material is backing up from the small intestine (duodenum). This may be normal. It may also happen after part of the stomach is removed with surgery.

## Risks

There is a slight risk of the tube being placed through the windpipe and into
the lungs instead of through the esophagus and into the stomach.

## Alternative Names

Gastric acid secretion test

## Images

    * ![Stomach acid test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8938t.jpg)Stomach acid test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Gastric acid secretion test (gastric acid stimulation
test). In: Chernecky, CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:549-602.

Schubert ML, Kaunitz JD. Gastric secretion. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 50.

Vincent K. Gastritis and peptic ulcer disease. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP,
eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:204-208.

## Review Date 10/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peptic Ulcer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PepticUlcer_thumb.jpg)Peptic
Ulcer _Read more_

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

