Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003697.htm    
                                Description: The gastrin blood test measures the amount of the hormone gastrin in blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastrin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003697.htm

# Gastrin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The gastrin blood test measures the amount of the hormone gastrin in blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines may affect the results of this test. Your health care
provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines. Do NOT stop
taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

Medicines that can increase gastrin level include stomach acid reducers, such
as antacids, H2 blockers (ranitidine and cimetidine), and proton pump
inhibitors (omeprazole and pantoprazole).

Drugs that can decrease gastrin level include caffeine, corticosteroids, and
the blood pressure drugs deserpidine, reserpine, and rescinnamine.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Gastrin is the main hormone that controls the release of acid in your stomach.
When there is food in the stomach, gastrin is released into the blood. As the
acid level rises in your stomach and intestines, your body normally makes less
gastrin.

Your provider may order this test if you have signs or symptoms of a problem
linked to an abnormal amount of gastrin. This includes peptic ulcer disease.

## Normal Results

Normal values are generally less than 100 pg/mL (48.1 pmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Too much gastrin can causes severe peptic ulcer disease. A higher than normal
level may also be due to:

    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Long-term gastritis
    * Over-activity of the gastrin-producing cells in the stomach (G-cell hyperplasia)
    *  _Helicobacter pylori_ infection of the stomach
    * Use of antacids or medicines to treat heartburn
    * Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, a gastrin-producing tumor that may develop in the stomach or pancreas
    * Decreased acid production in the stomach
    * Previous stomach surgery

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one patient to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Peptic ulcer - gastrin blood test

## References

BohÃ³rquez DV, Liddle RA. Gastrointestinal hormones and neurotransmitters. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 4.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

