Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000970.htm    
                                Description: Pyloric stenosis is a narrowing of the pylorus, the opening from the stomach into the small intestine. This article describes the condition in infants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pyloric stenosis in infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000970.htm

# Pyloric stenosis in infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pyloric stenosis is a narrowing of the pylorus, the opening from the stomach
into the small intestine. This article describes the condition in infants.

## Causes

Normally, food passes easily from the stomach into the first part of the small
intestine through a valve called the pylorus. With pyloric stenosis, the
muscles of the pylorus are thickened. This prevents the stomach from emptying
into the small intestine.

The exact cause of the thickening is unknown. Genes may play a role, since
children of parents who had pyloric stenosis are more likely to have this
condition. Other risk factors include certain antibiotics, too much acid in
the first part of the small intestine (duodenum), and certain diseases a baby
is born with, such as diabetes.

Pyloric stenosis occurs most often in infants younger than 6 months. It is
more common in boys than in girls.

## Symptoms

Vomiting is the first symptom in most children:

    * Vomiting may occur after every feeding or only after some feedings.
    * Vomiting usually starts around 3 weeks of age, but may start any time between 1 week and 5 months of age.
    * Vomiting is forceful (projectile vomiting).
    * The infant is hungry after vomiting and wants to feed again. 

Other symptoms appear several weeks after birth and may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Burping
    * Constant hunger
    * Dehydration (gets worse as vomiting gets worse)
    * Failure to gain weight or weight loss
    * Wave-like motion of the abdomen shortly after feeding and just before vomiting occurs 

## Exams and Tests

The condition is usually diagnosed before the baby is 6 months old.

A physical exam may reveal:

    * Signs of dehydration, such as dry skin and mouth, less tearing when crying, and dry diapers
    * Swollen belly
    * Olive-shaped mass when feeling the upper belly, which is the abnormal pylorus 

Ultrasound of the abdomen may be the first imaging test. Other tests that may
be done include:

    * Barium x-ray \-- reveals a swollen stomach and narrowed pylorus
    * Blood tests -- often reveal an electrolyte imbalance 

## Treatment

Treatment for pyloric stenosis involves surgery to widen the pylorus. The
surgery is called pyloromyotomy.

If putting the infant to sleep for surgery is not safe, a device called an
endoscope with a tiny balloon at the end is used. The balloon is inflated to
widen the pylorus.

In infants who cannot have surgery, tube feeding or medicine to relax the
pylorus is tried.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery usually relieves all symptoms. As soon as several hours after surgery,
the infant can start small, frequent feedings.

## Possible Complications

If pyloric stenosis isn't treated, a baby won't get enough nutrition and
fluid, and can become underweight and dehydrated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your baby has symptoms of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis; Infantile hypertrophic pyloric
stenosis; Gastric outlet obstruction; Vomiting - pyloric stenosis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Pyloric stenosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8944t.jpg)Pyloric stenosis
    * ![Infantile pyloric stenosis - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10281t.jpg)Infantile pyloric stenosis - Series

## References

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Pyloric
stenosis and other congenital anomalies of the stomach. In: Kliegman RM, St
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 355.

Seifarth FG, Soldes OS. Congenital anomalies and surgical disorders of the
stomach. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS, Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

