Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002415.htm    
                                Description: Sodium is an element that the body needs to work properly. Salt contains sodium.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sodium in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002415.htm

# Sodium in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sodium is an element that the body needs to work properly. Salt contains
sodium.

## Function

The body uses sodium to control blood pressure and blood volume. Your body
also needs sodium for your muscles and nerves to work properly.

## Food Sources

Sodium occurs naturally in most foods. The most common form of sodium is
sodium chloride, which is table salt. Milk, beets, and celery also naturally
contain sodium. Drinking water also contains sodium, but the amount depends on
the source.

Sodium is also added to many food products. Some of these added forms are
monosodium glutamate (MSG), sodium nitrite, sodium saccharin, baking soda
(sodium bicarbonate), and sodium benzoate. These are in items such as
Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, onion salt, garlic salt, and bouillon cubes.

Processed meats like bacon, sausage, and ham, and canned soups and vegetables
also contain added sodium. Fast foods are generally very high in sodium.

## Side Effects

Too much sodium in the diet may lead to:

    * High blood pressure in some people
    * A serious buildup of fluid in people with heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or kidney disease 

## Recommendations

Sodium in the diet (called dietary sodium) is measured in milligrams (mg).
Table salt is 40% sodium. One teaspoon (5 milliliters) of table salt contains
2,300 mg of sodium.

Healthy adults should limit sodium intake to 2,300 mg per day. Adults with
high blood pressure should have no more than 1,500 mg per day. Those with
congestive heart failure, liver cirrhosis, and kidney disease may need much
lower amounts.

There are no specific sodium restrictions for infants, children, and teens,
however a certain levels of daily adequate intake for healthy growth have been
established. These include:

    * Infants younger than 6 months: 120 mg
    * Infants age 6 to 12 months: 370 mg
    * Children ages 1 to 3 years: 1,000 mg
    * Children ages 4 to 8 years: 1,200 mg
    * Children and teens ages 9 to 18 years: 1,500 mg 

Eating habits and attitudes about food that are formed during childhood are
likely to influence eating habits for life. For this reason, it is a good idea
for children to avoid consuming too much sodium.

## Alternative Names

Diet - sodium (salt); Hyponatremia - sodium in diet; Hypernatremia - sodium in
diet; Heart failure - sodium in diet

## Images

    * ![Sodium content](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19703t.jpg)Sodium content

## References

Appel LJ. Diet and blood pressure. In: Bakris GL, Sorrentino MJ, eds.
_Hypertension: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

National Academies Press website. Dietary reference intakes for water,
potassium, sodium, chloride, and sulfate.
nationalacademies.org/hmd/~/media/Files/Activity%20Files/Nutrition/DRI-
Tables/9_Electrolytes_Water%20Summary.pdf?la=en. Accessed July 12, 2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sodium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Salt2_thumb.jpg)Sodium _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

