Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003481.htm    
                                Description: The sodium blood test measures the amount of sodium in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sodium blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003481.htm

# Sodium blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The sodium blood test measures the amount of sodium in the blood.

Sodium can also be measured using a urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking medicines
that may affect the test. These include:

    * Antibiotics
    * Antidepressants
    * Some high blood pressure medicines
    * Lithium
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Water pills (diuretics)

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Sodium is a substance that the body needs to work properly. Sodium is found in
most foods. The most common form of sodium is sodium chloride, which is table
salt.

This test is usually done as part of an electrolyte or basic metabolic panel
blood test.

Your blood sodium level represents a balance between the sodium and water in
the food and drinks you consume and the amount in your urine. A small amount
is lost through stool and sweat.

Many things can affect this balance. Your provider may order this test if you:

    * Have had a recent injury, surgery, or serious illness
    * Consume large or small amounts of salt or fluid
    * Receive intravenous (IV) fluids
    * Take diuretics (water pills) or certain other medicines, including the hormone aldosterone 

## Normal Results

The normal range for blood sodium levels is 135 to 145 milliequivalents per
liter (mEq/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal sodium level can be due to many different conditions.

Higher than normal sodium level is called hypernatremia. It may be due to:

    * Increased fluid loss due to excessive sweating, diarrhea, burns, or use of diuretics
    * Adrenal gland problems such as Cushing syndrome or hyperaldosteronism
    * Diabetes insipidus (type of diabetes in which kidneys are not able to conserve water)
    * Too much salt or sodium bicarbonate in the diet
    * Use of certain medicines, including corticosteroids, laxatives, lithium, and medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen 

Lower than normal sodium level is called hyponatremia. It may be due to:

    * Use of medicines such as diuretics (water pills), morphine, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants
    * Increased fluid loss from body, vomiting, or diarrhea
    * Increase in total body water seen in those with heart failure, certain kidney diseases, or cirrhosis of the liver
    * Adrenal glands not making enough of their hormones (Addison disease)
    * Buildup in urine of waste product from fat breakdown (ketonuria)
    * Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (antidiuretic hormone is released from an abnormal place in the body)
    * Too much of the hormone vasopressin 

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Serum sodium; Sodium - serum

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Sodium, plasma - serum or urine. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1026-1029.

Slotki I, Skorecki K. Disorders of sodium and water homeostasis. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sodium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Salt2_thumb.jpg)Sodium _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

