Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000760.htm    
                                Description: Sodium is one of the main elements in NaCl or table salt. It is added to many foods to enhance the flavor. Too much sodium is linked to high blood pressure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cooking without salt

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000760.htm

# Cooking without salt

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sodium is one of the main elements in NaCl or table salt. It is added to many
foods to enhance the flavor. Too much sodium is linked to high blood pressure.

Eating a low-salt diet is an important way to take care of your heart. Most
people eat about 3,400 mg of sodium a day. This is about twice as much as the
American Heart Association recommends. Most healthy people should have no more
than 2,300 mg of salt a day. People over 51, and those who have high blood
pressure, may need to limit sodium to 1,500 mg a day or less.

To get down to a healthy level, learn how to trim the excess salt from your
diet.

## Avoid Prepared Foods

Processed foods make dinner prep easy. But they account for 75% of the sodium
in the American diet. This includes:

    * Prepared mixes
    * Packaged rice dishes
    * Soups
    * Canned foods 

A healthy level of sodium is 140 mg or less per serving. If you use prepared
foods, limit sodium by:

    * Looking closely at a foods nutrition label for the milligrams of salt per serving. Be sure to note how many servings are in the package.
    * Buying products labeled "low-salt," or "no salt added."
    * Checking the nutrition labels of cereals, bread, and prepared mixes.
    * Rinsing canned beans to wash off some of the sodium.
    * Using frozen or fresh vegetables in place of canned vegetables.
    * Avoiding cured meats like ham and bacon, pickles, olives, and other foods prepared in salt.
    * Choosing unsalted brands of nuts and trail mix.

Also, use small amounts of condiments like ketchup, mustard, and soy sauce.
Even the low-salt versions are often high in sodium.

## Bring on the Fresh Produce

Fruits and vegetables are a great source of flavor and nutrition.

    * Plant-based foods -- carrots, spinach, apples, and peaches -- are naturally low in sodium.
    * Sun-dried tomatoes, dried mushrooms, cranberries, cherries, and other dried fruits are bursting with flavor. Use them in salads and other dishes to add zest.

## Try Salt-free Cooking

Explore cooking with salt substitutes.

    * Add a splash of lemon and other citrus fruits, or wine, to soups and other dishes. Or, use them as a marinade for chicken and other meats.
    * Avoid onion or garlic salt. Instead, use fresh garlic and onion, or onion and garlic powder.
    * Try different types of pepper, including black, white, green, and red.
    * Experiment with vinegars (white and red wine, rice wine, balsamic, and others). For the most flavor, add it at the end of cooking time.
    * Toasted sesame oil adds a savory flavor without added salt. 

Read the labels on spice mixes. Some have added salt.

To add a little heat and spice, try:

    * Dry mustard
    * Fresh chopped hot peppers
    * A sprinkle of paprika, cayenne pepper, or dried hot red pepper 

## Help Yourself to Herbs and Spices.

Herbs and spices provide a mix of flavors. If you are not sure what spices to
use, do a taste test. Mix a small pinch of a spice or spice mix into a lump of
low-fat cream cheese. Let it sit for an hour or more, then try it and see if
you like it.

Try these flavors to liven up your meals without salt.

Herbs and spices on vegetables:

    * Carrots -- Cinnamon, cloves, dill, ginger, marjoram, nutmeg, rosemary, sage
    * Corn -- Cumin, curry powder, paprika, parsley
    * Green beans -- Dill, lemon juice, marjoram, oregano, tarragon, thyme
    * Tomatoes -- Basil, bay leaf, dill, marjoram, onion, oregano, parsley, pepper 

Herbs and spices on meat:

    * Fish -- Curry powder, dill, dry mustard, lemon juice, paprika, pepper
    * Chicken -- Poultry seasoning, rosemary, sage, tarragon, thyme
    * Pork -- Garlic, onion, sage, pepper, oregano
    * Beef -- Marjoram, nutmeg, sage, thyme 

_Source: Flavor That Food, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute_

## Adjust to Less Salt

You will notice a difference when you first start cooking without salt.
Fortunately, your sense of taste will change. After a period of adjustment,
most people stop missing salt and start enjoying the other flavors of food.

## Salt-free Recipe

There are many great tasting low sodium recipes. Here's one you can try.

 **Chicken and Spanish Rice**

    * One cup (240 mL) onions, chopped
    * Three fourth cup (180 mL) green peppers
    * Two tsp (10 mL) vegetable oil
    * One 8-oz (240 g) can tomato sauce*
    * One tsp (5 mL) parsley, chopped
    * One half tsp (2.5 mL) black pepper
    * One and a quarter tsp (6 mL) garlic, minced
    * Five cups (1.2 L) cooked brown rice (cooked in unsalted water)
    * Three and a half cups (840 mL) chicken breasts, cooked, skin and bone removed, and diced 
    1. In a large skillet, sautÃ© onions and green peppers in oil for 5 minutes on medium heat.
    2. Add tomato sauce and spices. Heat through.
    3. Add cooked rice and chicken. Heat through. 

*To reduce sodium, use one 4-oz (120 g) can of low-sodium tomato sauce and one 4-oz (120 g) can of regular tomato sauce.

 _Source: Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure with DASH, U.S. Health
and Human Services._

## Alternative Names

DASH diet; High blood pressure - DASH; Hypertension - DASH; Low-salt diet -
DASH

## References

Appel LJ. Diet and blood pressure. In: Bakris GL, Sorrentino MJ, eds.
_Hypertension: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am
Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt B):2960-2984. PMID: 24239922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239922.

US Department of Health and Human Services; US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed July 13, 2018.

US Department of Health and Human Services website. Your guide to lowering
your blood pressure with DASH.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/heart/new_dash.pdf. Accessed July 13,
2018.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Sodium

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

