Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000394.htm    
                                Description: Low blood sodium is a condition in which the amount of sodium in the blood is lower than normal. The medical name of this condition is hyponatremia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low blood sodium

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000394.htm

# Low blood sodium

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low blood sodium is a condition in which the amount of sodium in the blood is
lower than normal. The medical name of this condition is hyponatremia.

## Causes

Sodium is found mostly in the body fluids outside the cells. Sodium is an
electrolyte (mineral). It is very important for maintaining blood pressure.
Sodium is also needed for nerves, muscles, and other body tissuesÂ to work
properly.

When the amount of sodium in fluids outside cells drops below normal, water
moves into the cells to balance the levels. This causes the cells to swell
with too much water. Brain cells are especially sensitive to swelling, and
this causesÂ many of the symptoms of low sodium.

With low blood sodium (hyponatremia), the imbalance of water to sodium is
caused by one of three conditions:

    * Euvolemic hyponatremia -- total body water increases, but the body's sodium content stays the same
    * Hypervolemic hyponatremia -- both sodium and water content in the body increase, but the water gain is greater
    * Hypovolemic hyponatremia -- water and sodium are both lost from the body, but the sodium loss is greater

Low blood sodium can be caused by:

    * Burns that affect a large area of the body
    * Diarrhea
    * Diuretic medicines (water pills), which increase urine output and loss of sodium through the urine
    * Heart failure
    * Kidney diseases
    * Liver cirrhosis
    * Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)
    * Sweating
    * Vomiting 

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

    * Confusion, irritability, restlessnessÂ 
    * Convulsions
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Muscle weakness, spasms, or cramps
    * Nausea, vomiting

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a complete physical examination and ask
about your symptoms. Blood and urine tests will be done.

Lab tests that can confirm and help diagnose low sodium include:

    * Comprehensive metabolic panel (includes blood sodium, normal range is 135 to 145 mEq/L, or 135 to 145 mmol/L)
    * Osmolality blood test
    * Urine osmolality
    * Urine sodium (normal level is 20 mEq/L in a random urine sample, and 40 to 220 mEq per day for a 24-hour urine test) 

## Treatment

The cause of low sodium must be diagnosed and treated. If cancerÂ is theÂ
cause of the condition, then radiation, chemotherapy, or surgery to remove the
tumor may correct the sodium imbalance.

Other treatments depend on the specific type of hyponatremia.

Treatments may include:

    * Fluids through a vein (IV)
    * Medicines to relieve symptoms
    * Limiting water intake

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the condition that is causing the problem. Low sodium that
occurs in less than 48 hours (acute hyponatremia), is more dangerous than low
sodium that develops slowly over time. When sodium level falls slowly over
days or weeks (chronic hyponatremia), the brain cells have time to adjust and
swelling may be minimal.

## Possible Complications

In severe cases, low sodium can lead to:

    * Decreased consciousness, hallucinations or coma
    * Brain herniation
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

When your bodyâs sodium level drops too much, itÂ can be a life-threatening
emergency. Call your provider right away if you have symptoms of this
condition.

## Prevention

Treating the condition that is causing low sodium can help.

If you play sports or do other vigorous activity, drink fluids such as sports
drinksÂ that contain electrolytesÂ to keep your body's sodium level in a
healthy range.

## Alternative Names

Hyponatremia; Dilutional hyponatremia; Euvolemic hyponatremia; Hypervolemic
hyponatremia; Hypovolemic hyponatremia

## References

Dineen R, Hannon MJ, Thompson CJ. Hyponatremia and hypernatremia. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 112.

Little M. Metabolic emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown A,
Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine._ 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2015:section 12.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Sodium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Salt2_thumb.jpg)Sodium _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

