Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007663.htm    
                                Description: Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) is surgery to open the upper airways by taking out extra tissue in the throat. It may be done to treat mild obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) or severe snoring.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007663.htm

# Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) is surgery to open the upper airways by
taking out extra tissue in the throat. It may be done to treat mild
obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) or severe snoring.

## Description

UPPP removes soft tissue at the back of the throat. This includes:

    * All or part of the uvula (the soft flap of tissue that hangs down at the back of the mouth).
    * Parts of the soft palate and tissue at the sides of the throat.
    * Tonsils and adenoids, if they are still there.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your doctor may recommend this surgery if you have mild obstructive sleep
apnea (OSA).

    * Try lifestyle changes first, such as weight loss or changing your sleep position.
    * Most experts recommend trying to use CPAP, nasal expanding strips, or an oral device to treat OSA first. 

Your doctor may recommend this surgery to treat severe snoring, even if you do
not have OSA. Before you decide about this surgery:

    * See if weight loss helps your snoring.
    * Consider how important it is to you to treat snoring. The surgery does not work for everyone.
    * Make sure your insurance will pay for this surgery. If you do not also have OSA, your insurance may not cover the surgery. 

Sometimes, UPPP is done along with other more invasive surgeries to treat more
severe OSA.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines or breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Damage to the muscles in the throat and soft palate. You may have some problems keeping liquids from coming up through your nose when drinking (called velopharyngeal insufficiency). Most often, this is only a temporary side effect.
    * Mucus in the throat.
    * Speech changes. 
    * Dehydration.

## Before the Procedure

Be sure to tell your doctor or nurse:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What drugs you are taking, including drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription
    * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day

During the days before the surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinners such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin).
    * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking can slow healing. Ask your provider for help quitting.
    * Let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. If you do get sick, your surgery may need to be postponed.

On the day of the surgery:

    * You willÂ likely be asked not to drink or eat anything for several hours before the surgery.
    * Take any drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

This surgery most often requires an overnight stay in the hospital to make
sure you can swallow. UPPP surgery can be painful and full recovery takes 2 or
3 weeks.

    * Your throat will be very sore for up to several weeks. You will get liquid pain medicines to ease the soreness.
    * You may have stitches in the back of your throat. These will dissolve or your doctor will remove them at the first follow-up visit.
    * Eat only soft foods and liquids for the first 2 weeks after surgery. Avoid crunchy foods or foods that are hard to chew.
    * You will need to rinse your mouth after meals with a salt-water solution for the first 7 to 10 days.
    * Avoid heavy lifting or straining for the first 2 weeks. You may walk and do light activity after 24 hours.
    * You will have a follow-up visit with your doctor 2 or 3 weeks after the surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sleep apnea improves at first for about half of the people who have this
surgery. Over time, the benefit wears off for many people.

Some studies suggest that surgery is best suited only for people with
abnormalities in the soft palate.

## Alternative Names

Palate surgery; Uvulopalatal flap procedure; UPPP; Laser-assisted
uvulopalaplasty; Radiofrequency palatoplasty; Velopharyngeal insufficiency -
UPPP; Obstructive sleep apnea - uvulopalaplasty; OSA - uvulopalaplasty

## References

Katsantonis GP. Classic uvulopalatopharyngoplasty. In: Friedman M, Jacobowitz
O, eds. _Sleep Apnea and Snoring_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 32.

Qaseem A, Holty JE, Owens DK, et al; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the
American College of Physicians. Management of obstructive sleep apnea in
adults: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians.
_Ann Intern Med_. 2013;159(7):471-483. PMID: 24061345
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24061345.

Wakefield TL, Lam DJ, Ishman SL. Sleep apnea and sleep disorders. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea_thumb.jpg)Sleep Apnea
_Read more_

![Snoring](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Snoring_thumb.jpg)Snoring _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

