Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000720.htm    
                                Description: Snoring is a loud, hoarse, harsh breathing sound that occurs during sleep. Snoring is common in adults.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Snoring - adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000720.htm

# Snoring - adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Snoring is a loud, hoarse, harsh breathing sound that occurs during sleep.
Snoring is common in adults.

Loud, frequent snoring can make it hard for both you and your bed partner to
get enough sleep. Sometimes snoring can be a sign of a sleep disorder called
sleep apnea.

## Causes

When you sleep, the muscles in your throat relax and your tongue slips back in
your mouth. Snoring occurs when something blocks air from flowing freely
through your mouth and nose. When you breathe, the walls of your throat
vibrate, causing the sound of snoring.

There are several factors that can lead to snoring, including:

    * Being overweight. The extra tissue in your neck puts pressure on your airways.
    * Tissue swelling during the last month of pregnancy.
    * Crooked or bent nasal septum, which is the wall of bone and cartilage between your nostrils.
    * Growths in your nasal passages (nasal polyps).
    * Stuffy nose from a cold or allergies.
    * Swelling in the roof of your mouth (soft palate) or the uvula, the piece of tissue that hangs down in the back of your mouth. These areas may also be longer than normal.
    * Swollen adenoids and tonsils that block the airways. This is a common cause of snoring in children.
    * A tongue that is wider at the base, or a larger tongue in a smaller mouth.
    * Poor muscle tone. This may be caused by aging or by using sleeping pills, antihistamines, or alcohol at bedtime. 

Sometimes snoring can be a sign of a sleep disorder called sleep apnea.

    * This occurs when you completely or partly stop breathing for more than 10 seconds while you sleep.
    * This is followed by a sudden snort or gasp when you start breathing again. During that time you wake up without realizing it.
    * Then you start to snore again.
    * This cycle usually happens many times a night, which makes it hard to sleep deeply. 

Sleep apnea can make it especially hard for your bed partner to get a good
night's sleep.

## Home Care

To help reduce snoring:

    * Avoid alcohol and medicines that make you sleepy at bedtime.
    * DO NOT sleep flat on your back. Try to sleep on your side instead. You can sew a golf or tennis ball into the back of your night clothes. If you roll over, the pressure of the ball will help remind you to stay on your side. Over time, side sleeping will become a habit.
    * Lose weight, if you are overweight.
    * Try over-the-counter, drug-free nasal strips that help widen the nostrils. (These are not treatments for sleep apnea.) 

If your health care provider has given you a breathing device, use it on a
regular basis. Follow your provider's advice for treating allergy symptoms.

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk to your provider if you:

    * Have problems with attention, concentration, or memory
    * Wake up in the morning not feeling rested
    * Feel very drowsy during the day
    * Have morning headaches
    * Gain weight
    * Tried self-care for snoring, and it has not helped 

You should also talk with your provider if you have episodes of no breathing
(apnea) during the night. Your partner can tell you if you are snoring loudly
or making choking and gasping sounds.

Depending on your symptoms and the cause of your snoring, your provider may
refer you to a sleep specialist.

## References

Huon L-K, Guilleminault C. Signs and symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea and
upper airway resistance syndrome. In: Friedman M, Jacobowitz O, eds. _Sleep
Apnea and Snoring_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 2.

Stoohs R, Gold AR. Snoring and pathologic upper airway resistance syndromes.
In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 112.

Wakefield TL, Lam DJ, Ishman SL. Sleep apnea and sleep disorders. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Snoring

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

