Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001992.htm    
                                Description: There are many ways to quit smoking. There are also resources to help you. Family members, friends, and co-workers may be supportive. But to be successful, you must really want to quit. The tips below    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tips on how to quit smoking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001992.htm

# Tips on how to quit smoking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There are many ways to quit smoking. There are also resources to help you.
Family members, friends, and co-workers may be supportive. But to be
successful, you must really want to quit. The tips below can help you get
started.

## Information

Most people who have quit smoking were unsuccessful at least once in the past.
Try not to view past attempts to quit as failures. See them as learning
experiences.

It is hard to stop smoking or using smokeless tobacco, but anyone can do it.

Know what symptoms to expect when you stop smoking. These are called
withdrawal symptoms. Common symptoms include:

    * An intense craving for nicotine
    * Anxiety, tension, restlessness, frustration, or impatience
    * Difficulty concentrating
    * Drowsiness or trouble sleeping
    * Headaches
    * Increased appetite and weight gain
    * Irritability or depression 

How bad your symptoms are depends on how long you smoked. The number of
cigarettes you smoked each day also plays a role.

FEEL READY TO QUIT?

First, set a quit date. That is the day you will quit completely. Before your
quit date, you may begin reducing your cigarette use. Remember, there is no
safe level of cigarette smoking.

List the reasons why you want to quit. Include both short- and long-term
benefits.

Identify the times you are most likely to smoke. For example, do you tend to
smoke when feeling stressed or down? When out at night with friends? While
drinking coffee or alcohol? When bored? While driving? Right after a meal or
sex? During a work break? While watching TV or playing cards? When you are
with other smokers?

Let your friends, family, and co-workers know of your plan to stop smoking.
Tell them your quit date. It can be helpful if they know what you are going
through, especially when you are grumpy.

Get rid of all your cigarettes just before the quit date. Clean anything that
smells of smoke, such as clothes and furniture.

MAKE A PLAN

Plan what you will do instead of smoking at those times when you are most
likely to smoke.

Be as specific as possible. For example, if in the past you smoked when
drinking a cup of coffee, drink tea instead. Tea may not trigger the desire
for a cigarette. Or, when you feel stressed, take a walk instead of smoking a
cigarette.

Get rid of cigarettes in the car. Put pretzels there instead.

Find activities that focus your hands and mind, but make sure they are not
taxing or fattening. Computer games, solitaire, knitting, sewing, and
crossword puzzles may help.

If you normally smoke after eating, find other ways to end a meal. Eat a piece
of fruit. Get up and make a phone call. Take a walk (a good distraction that
also burns calories).

CHANGE YOUR LIFESTYLE

Make other changes in your lifestyle. Change your daily schedule and habits.
Eat at different times, or eat several small meals instead of three large
ones. Sit in a different chair or even a different room.

Satisfy your oral habits in other ways. Eat celery or another low-calorie
snack. Chew sugarless gum. Suck on a cinnamon stick. Pretend-smoke with a
straw.

Get more exercise. Take walks or ride a bike. Exercise helps relieve the urge
to smoke.

SET SOME GOALS

Set short-term quitting goals and reward yourself when you meet them. Every
day, put the money you normally spend on cigarettes in a jar. Later, spend
that money on something you like.

Try not to think about all the days ahead you will need to avoid smoking. Take
it one day at a time.

Just one puff or one cigarette will make your desire for cigarettes even
stronger. However, it is normal to make mistakes. So even if you have one
cigarette, you do not need to take the next one.

OTHER TIPS

Enroll in a stop smoking support program. Hospitals, health departments,
community centers, and work sites often offer programs. Learn about self-
hypnosis or other techniques.

Ask your health care provider about medicines that can help you quit nicotine
and tobacco and keep you from starting again. These include nicotine patches,
gum, lozenges, and sprays. Prescription medications that help reduce nicotine
cravings and other withdrawal symptoms include varenicline (Chantix) and
bupropion (Zyban, Wellbutrin).

![Quitting smoking](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17214.jpg)

The American Cancer Society's website, The Great American Smokeout is a good
resource.

The website smokefree.gov also provides information and resources for smokers.
Calling 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669) or 1-877-44U-QUIT (1-877-448-7848)
will direct you to a free telephone counseling program in your state.

![Smoking hazards](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9940.jpg)

Above all, do not get discouraged if you are not able to quit smoking the
first time. Nicotine addiction is a hard habit to break. Try something
different next time. Develop new strategies, and try again. For many people,
it takes several attempts to finally kick the habit.

## Alternative Names

Cigarettes - tips on how to quit; Smoking cessation - tips on how to quit;
Smokeless tobacco - tips on how to quit; Tobacco cessation - tips; Nicotine
cessation - tips

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge
    * Brain aneurysm repair - discharge
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Esophagectomy - discharge 
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart valve surgery - discharge 
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Lung surgery - discharge 
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 
    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Quitting smoking](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17214t.jpg)Quitting smoking
    * ![Smoking hazards](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9940t.jpg)Smoking hazards

## References

Benowitz NL, Brunetta PG. Smoking hazards and cessation. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

Rakel RE, Houston T. Nicotine addiction. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 49.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Behavioral and pharmacotherapy
interventions for tobacco smoking cessation in adults, including pregnant
women: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;163(8):622-634. PMID: 26389730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389730.

## Review Date 9/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![How To Lower
Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HowToLowerCholesterol_thumb.jpg)How
to Lower Cholesterol _Read more_

![Quitting
Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/QuittingSmoking_thumb.jpg)Quitting
Smoking _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

