Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000953.htm    
                                Description: The nicotine in tobacco can be addictive like alcohol, cocaine, and morphine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nicotine and tobacco

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000953.htm

# Nicotine and tobacco

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The nicotine in tobacco can be addictive like alcohol, cocaine, and morphine.

## Causes

Tobacco is a plant grown for its leaves, which are smoked, chewed, or sniffed.

Tobacco contains a chemical called nicotine. Nicotine is an addictive
substance.

Millions of people in the United States have been able to quit smoking.
Although the number of cigarette smokers in the United States has dropped in
recent years, the number of smokeless tobacco users has steadily increased.
Smokeless tobacco products are either placed in the mouth, cheek, or lip and
sucked or chewed on, or placed in the nasal passage. The nicotine in these
products is absorbed at the same rate as smoking tobacco, and addiction is
still very strong.

Both smoking and smokeless tobacco use carry many health risks.

## Symptoms

Nicotine use can have many different effects on the body. It can:

    * Decrease the appetite -- Fear of weight gain makes some people unwilling to stop smoking.
    * Boost mood, give people a sense of well-being, and possibly even relieve minor depression.
    * Increase activity in the intestines.
    * Create more saliva and phlegm.
    * Increase the heart rate by around 10 to 20 beats per minute.
    * Increase blood pressure by 5 to 10 mm Hg.
    * Possibly cause sweating, nausea, and diarrhea.
    * Stimulate memory and alertness -- People who use tobacco often depend on it to help them accomplish certain tasks and perform well.Â 

Symptoms of nicotine withdrawal appear within 2 to 3 hours after you last use
tobacco. People who smoked the longest or smoked a greater number of
cigarettes each day are more likely to have withdrawal symptoms. For those who
are quitting, symptoms peak about 2 to 3 days later. Common symptoms include:

    * Intense craving for nicotine
    * Anxiety
    * Depression
    * Drowsiness or trouble sleeping
    * Bad dreams and nightmares
    * Feeling tense, restless, or frustrated
    * Headaches
    * Increased appetite and weight gain
    * Problems concentrating 

You may notice some or all of these symptoms when switching from regular to
low-nicotine cigarettes or reducing the number of cigarettes you smoke.

## Treatment

It is hard to stop smoking or using smokeless tobacco, but anyone can do it.
There are many ways to quit smoking.

There are also resources to help you quit. Family members, friends, and co-
workers may be supportive. Quitting tobacco is hard if you are trying to do it
alone.

To be successful, you must really want to quit. Most people who have quit
smoking were unsuccessful at least once in the past. Try not to view past
attempts as failures. See them as learning experiences.

Most smokers find it hard to break all the habits they have created around
smoking.

A smoking cessation program may improve your chance for success. These
programs are offered by hospitals, health departments, community centers, work
sites, and national organizations.

Nicotine replacement therapy may also be helpful. It involves the use of
products that provide low doses of nicotine, but none of the toxins found in
smoke. Nicotine replacement comes in the form of:

    * Gum
    * Inhalers
    * Throat lozenges
    * Nasal spray
    * Skin patches 

You can buy many types of nicotine replacement without a prescription.

Your health care provider can also prescribe other types of medicines to help
you quit. Varenicline (Chantix) and bupropion (Zyban, Wellbutrin) are
prescription medications that affect the nicotine receptors in the brain.Â

The goal of these therapies is to relieve cravings for nicotine and ease your
withdrawal symptoms.Â

Health experts warn that e-cigarettes are not a replacement therapy for
cigarette smoking. It is not known exactly how much nicotine is in e-cigarette
cartridges, because information on labels is often wrong.

## Support Groups

Your provider can refer you to stop smoking programs. These are offered by
hospitals, health departments, community centers, work sites, and national
organizations.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who are trying to quit smoking often become discouraged when they do
not succeed at first. Research shows that the more times you try, the more
likely you are to succeed. If you start smoking again after you have tried to
quit, do not give up. Look at what worked or did not work, think of new ways
to quit smoking, and try again.

## Possible Complications

There are many more reasons to quit using tobacco. Knowing the serious health
risks from tobacco may help motivate you to quit. Tobacco and related
chemicals can increase your risk for serious health problems such as cancer,
lung disease, and heart attack.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you wish to stop smoking, or have already done so and are
having withdrawal symptoms. Your provider can help recommend treatments.

## Alternative Names

Withdrawal from nicotine; Smoking - nicotine addiction and withdrawal;
Smokeless tobacco - nicotine addiction; Cigar smoking; Pipe smoking; Smokeless
snuff; Tobacco use; Chewing tobacco; Nicotine addiction and tobacco

## Images

    * ![Tobacco health risks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9975t.jpg)Tobacco health risks

## References

Benowitz NL, Brunetta PG. Smoking hazards and cessation. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

Rakel RE, Houston T. Nicotine addiction. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 49.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Behavioral and pharmacotherapy
interventions for tobacco smoking cessation in adults, including pregnant
women: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;163(8):622-634. PMID: 26389730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389730.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Quitting
Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/QuittingSmoking_thumb.jpg)Quitting
Smoking _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

