Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007440.htm    
                                Description: It is hard to quit smoking if you are acting alone. Smokers usually have a much better chance of quitting with a support program. Stop smoking programs are offered by hospitals, health departments, community    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stop smoking support programs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007440.htm

# Stop smoking support programs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is hard to quit smoking if you are acting alone. Smokers usually have a
much better chance of quitting with a support program. Stop smoking programs
are offered by hospitals, health departments, community centers, work sites,
and national organizations.

## Information

You can find out about smoking cessation programs from:

    * Your doctor or local hospital
    * Your health insurance plan
    * Your employer
    * Your local health department
    * The National Cancer Institute Quitline at 877-448-7848
    * The American Cancer Society Quitline at 800-227-2345
    * The American Lung Association www.lung.org/stop-smoking/join-freedom-from-smoking, which has online and phone advice programs
    * State programs in all 50 states and the District of ColumbiaÂ at 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669)

The best smoking cessation programs combine numerous approaches and target the
fears and problems you have when quitting. They also provide ongoing support
for staying away from tobacco.

Be wary of programs that:

    * Are short and offer no help over time
    * Charge a high fee
    * Offer supplements or pills that are only available through the program
    * Promise an easy path to quitting 

TELEPHONE-BASED HELP

Telephone-based services can help you design a stop smoking program that meets
your needs. These services are easy to use. The counselors can help you avoid
common mistakes. This kind of support can be as effective as face-to-face
counseling.

Telephone programs are often available on nights and weekends. Trained
counselors will help you set up a support network for quitting and help you
decide which stop smoking aids to use. Choices may include:

    * Medicines
    * Nicotine replacement therapy
    * Support programs or classes 

SUPPORT GROUPS

Let your friends, family, and coworkers know of your plans to stop smoking and
your quit date. It helps for people around you to be aware of what you are
going through, especially when you are grumpy.

You may also want to seek out other types of support, such as:

    * Your family doctor or nurse.
    * Groups of ex-smokers.
    * Nicotine Anonymous (nicotine-anonymous.org). This organization uses a similar approach as Alcoholics Anonymous. As part of this group, you will be asked to admit that you are powerless over your addiction to nicotine. Also, a sponsor is often available to help you get through urges to smoke. 

SMOKING PROGRAMS AND CLASSES

Stop smoking programs can also help you find a quitting method that suits your
needs. They will help you be aware of problems that come up while you're
trying to quit and offer tools to cope with these problems. These programs can
help you avoid making common mistakes.

Programs may either have one-on-one sessions or group counseling. Some
programs offer both. Programs should be run by counselors who are trained to
help people quit smoking.

Programs that provide more sessions or longer sessions have a better chance of
success. The American Cancer Society recommends programs with the following
features:

    * Each session lasts at least 15 to 30 minutes.
    * There are at least 4 sessions.
    * The program lasts at least 2 weeks, although longer is usually better.
    * The leader is trained in smoking cessation. 

Internet-based programs are also becoming more available. These services send
you personalized reminders using e-mail, texting, or other methods.

## Alternative Names

Smokeless tobacco - stop smoking programs; Stop smoking techniques; Smoking
cessation programs; Smoking cessation techniques

## References

George TP. Nicotine and tobacco. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 32.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Behavioral and pharmacotherapy
interventions for tobacco smoking cessation in adults, including pregnant
women: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;163(8):622-634. PMID: 26389730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389730.

Smokefree.gov website. Quit smoking. smokefree.gov/quit-smoking. Accessed
February 26, 2019.

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Quitting
Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/QuittingSmoking_thumb.jpg)Quitting
Smoking _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

