Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007439.htm    
                                Description: Your health care provider can prescribe medicines to help you quit tobacco use. These medicines do not contain nicotine and are not habit-forming. They work in a different way than nicotine patches, gums,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smoking cessation medications

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007439.htm

# Smoking cessation medications

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your health care provider can prescribe medicines to help you quit tobacco
use. These medicines do not contain nicotine and are not habit-forming. They
work in a different way than nicotine patches, gums, sprays, or lozenges.

## Information

Smoking cessation medicines can help:

    * Lessen the craving for tobacco.
    * Decrease withdrawal symptoms.
    * Keep you from starting to use tobacco again.

Like other treatments, these medicines work best when they are part of a
program that includes:

    * Making a clear decision to quit and setting a quit date.
    * Creating a plan to help you deal with smoking urges.
    * Getting support from a doctor, counselor, or support group. 

BUPROPION (Zyban)

Bupropion is a pill that may cut down your craving for tobacco.

Bupropion is also used for people with depression. It helps with quitting
tobacco even if you do not have problems with depression. It is not fully
clear how bupropion helps with tobacco cravings and quitting tobacco.

Bupropion should not be used for people who:

    * Are under age 18
    * Are pregnant
    * Have a history of medical problems such seizures, kidney failure, heavy alcohol use, eating disorders, bipolar or manic depressive illness, or a serious head injury

How to take it:

    * Start bupropion 1 week before you plan to stop smoking. Your goal is to take it for 7 to 12 weeks. Talk with your doctor before taking it for a longer period of time.Â For some people, taking it longer helps prevent resuming smoking.
    * The most common dose is a 150 mg tablet once or twice a day with at least 8 hours between each dose. Swallow the pill whole. DO NOT chew, split, or crush it. Doing so can cause side effects, including seizures.
    * If you need help with cravings when first quitting, you may take bupropion along with nicotine patches, gums, or lozenges. Ask your doctor if this is OK for you.

Side effects of this medicine may include:

    * Dry mouth.
    * Problems sleeping. Try taking the second dose in the afternoon if you have this problem (take it at least 8 hours after the first dose).
    * Stop taking this medicine right away if you have changes in behavior. These include anger, agitation, depressed mood, thoughts of suicide, or attempted suicide. 

VARENICLINE (CHANTIX)

Varenicline (Chantix) helps with the craving for nicotine and withdrawal
symptoms. It works in the brain to reduce the physical effects of nicotine.
This means that even if you start smoking again after quitting, you will not
get as much pleasure from it when you are taking this drug.

How to take it:

    * Start taking this medicine 1 week before you plan to quit cigarettes. Or, you can begin taking the medicine, then choose a date within 4 weeks to quit. Another way is to begin taking the medicine, then slowly stop smoking over the next 12 weeks.
    * Take it after meals with a full glass of water.
    * Your provider will tell you how to take this medicine. Most people take one 0.5 mg pill a day at first. By the end of the second week, you will likely be taking a 1 mg pill twice a day.
    * DO NOT combine this drug with nicotine patches, gums, sprays or lozenges.
    * Children under age 18 should not take this drug. 

Most people tolerate varenicline well. Side effects are not common, but can
include the following if they do occur:

    * Headaches, problems sleeping, sleepiness, and strange dreams.
    * Constipation, intestinal gas, nausea, and changes in taste.
    * Depressed mood, thoughts of suicide and attempted suicide. Call your doctor right away if you have any of these symptoms. 

NOTE: Use of this medicine is linked to an increased risk of heart attack and
stroke.

OTHER MEDICINES

The following medicines may help when other treatments have not worked. The
benefits are less consistent, so they are considered second-line treatment.

    * Clonidine is normally used to treat high blood pressure. It may help when it is started before quitting. This drug comes as a pill or patch.
    * Nortriptyline is another antidepressant. It is started 10 to 28 days before quitting.

## Alternative Names

Smoking cessation - medications; Smokeless tobacco - medications; Medications
for stopping tobacco

## References

George TP. Nicotine and tobacco. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 32.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Behavioral and pharmacotherapy
interventions for tobacco smoking cessation in adults, including pregnant
women: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;163(8):622-634. PMID: 26389730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389730.

US Food and Drug Administration website. Want to quit smoking? FDA-approved
products can help. www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm198176.htm.
Updated December 11, 2017. Accessed February 26, 2019.

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Quitting
Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/QuittingSmoking_thumb.jpg)Quitting
Smoking _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

