Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000437.htm    
                                Description: Quitting smoking and other nicotine products, including e-cigarettes, before surgery can improve your recovery and outcome after surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smoking and surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000437.htm

# Smoking and surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Quitting smoking and other nicotine products, including e-cigarettes, before
surgery can improve your recovery and outcome after surgery.

Most people who successfully quit smoking have tried and failed many times. DO
NOT give up. Learning from your past tries can help you succeed.

## There Are Many Reasons to Quit Smoking

Tar, nicotine, and other chemicals from smoking can increase your risk for
many health problems. These include heart and blood vessel problems, such as:

    * Blood clots and aneurysms in the brain, which can lead to strokes
    * Coronary artery disease, including chest pain (angina) and heart attacks
    * High blood pressure
    * Poor blood supply to the legs
    * Problems with erections 

Smoking also increases your risk for different types of cancer, including
cancer of the:

    * Lungs
    * Mouth
    * Larynx
    * Esophagus
    * Bladder
    * Kidneys
    * Pancreas
    * Cervix 

Smoking also leads to lung problems, such as emphysema and chronic bronchitis.
Smoking also makes asthma harder to control.

Some smokers switch to smokeless tobacco instead of quitting tobacco
completely. But using smokeless tobacco still carries health risks, such as:

    * Developing mouth or nasal cancer
    * Gum problems, tooth wear, and cavities
    * Worsening high blood pressure and chest pain 

## How Smoking Affects Surgery

Smokers who have surgery have a higher chance than nonsmokers of blood clots
forming in their legs. These clots may travel to and damage the lungs.

Smoking decreases the amount of oxygen that reaches the cells in your surgical
wound. As a result, your wound may heal more slowly and is more likely to
become infected.

All smokers carry an increased risk for heart and lung problems. Even when
your surgery goes smoothly, smoking causes your body, heart, and lungs to work
harder than if you did not smoke.

## Making the Decision to Quit

Most doctors will tell you to stop using cigarettes and tobacco at least 4
weeks before your surgery. Stretching the time between quitting smoking and
your surgery out to at least 10 weeks can decrease your risk for problems even
more. Like any addiction, quitting tobacco is difficult. There are many ways
to quit smoking and many resources to help you, such as:

    * Family members, friends, and coworkers may be supportive or encouraging.
    * Talk to your doctor about medicines, such as nicotine replacement and prescription medicines.
    * If you join smoking cessation programs, you have a much better chance of success. Such programs are offered by hospitals, health departments, community centers, and work sites.

Using nicotine gum around the time of surgery is not encouraged. The nicotine
will still interfere with the healing of your surgical wound and have the same
effect on your general health as using cigarettes and tobacco.

## Alternative Names

Surgery - quitting smoking; Surgery - quitting tobacco; Wound healing -
smoking

## References

American College of Surgeons website. Quit smoking before your operation.
www.facs.org/education/patient-education/patient-resources/prepare/quit-
smoking. Updated 2015. Accessed October 3, 2018.

Kulaylat MN, Dayton MT. Surgical complications. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 12.

Yousefzadeh A, Chung F, Wong DT, Warner DO, Wong J. Smoking cessation: the
role of the anesthesiologist. _Anesth Analg_. 2016;122(5):1311-1320. PMID:
27101492 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27101492.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 03-12-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Quitting Smoking
    * Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

