Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000854.htm    
                                Description: A craving is a strong, distracting urge to smoke. Cravings are strongest when you first quit.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to stop smoking: Dealing with cravings

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000854.htm

# How to stop smoking: Dealing with cravings

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A craving is a strong, distracting urge to smoke. Cravings are strongest when
you first quit.

## What Causes Cravings

When you first quit smoking, your body will go through nicotine withdrawal.
You may feel tired, moody, and have headaches. In the past, you may have coped
with these feelings by smoking a cigarette.

Places and activities can trigger cravings. If you used to smoke after meals
or when you talked on the phone, these things might make you crave a
cigarette.

## How to Manage Cravings

You can expect to have cravings for a few weeks after you quit. The first 3
days will probably be the worst. As more time passes, your cravings should get
less intense.

 **PLAN AHEAD**

Thinking about how to resist cravings ahead of time can help you overcome
them.

 **Make a list.** Write down the reasons you are quitting. Post the list
someplace visible so you can remind yourself of the good things about
quitting. Your list might include things like:

    * I will have more energy
    * I will not wake up coughing
    * My clothes and breath will smell better
    * The longer I do not smoke, the less I will crave cigarettes 

**Make rules.** You might find yourself thinking you can just smoke 1
cigarette. Any cigarette you smoke will tempt you to smoke more. Rules provide
structure to help you keep saying no. Your rules might include:

    * When I have a craving, I will wait at least 10 minutes to see if it passes.
    * When I have a craving, I will walk up and down the stairs 5 times.
    * When I have a craving, I will eat a carrot or celery stick. 

**Set up rewards.** Plan rewards for each stage of quitting you get through.
The longer you go without smoking, the bigger the reward. For instance:

    * After 1 day of not smoking, reward yourself with a new book, DVD, or album.
    * After 1 week, visit a place you have wanted to go for a long time like a park or museum.
    * After 2 weeks, treat yourself to a new pair of shoes or tickets to a game. 

**Talk back to yourself.** There might be times you think you have to have a
cigarette to get through a stressful day. Give yourself a pep talk:

    * Cravings are part of quitting, but I can get through it.
    * Every day I go without smoking, quitting will get easier.
    * I have done hard things before, I can do this. 

**AVOID TEMPTATION**

Think about all the situations that make you want to smoke. When possible,
avoid these situations. For example, you might need to avoid spending time
with friends who smoke, going to bars, or attending parties for a while. Spend
time in public places where smoking is not allowed. Try to do things you enjoy
like going to a movie, shopping, or hanging out with non-smoking friends. This
way you can start to associate not smoking with having fun.

 **DISTRACT YOURSELF**

Keep your hands and mouth busy as you get used to not handling cigarettes. You
can:

    * Hold a pen, stress ball, or rubber band
    * Chop vegetables for snacking
    * Knit or do a jigsaw puzzle
    * Chew sugar-free gum
    * Hold a straw or stir stick in your mouth
    * Eat carrots, celery, or apple slices 

**PRACTICE NEW WAYS TO RELAX**

Many people use smoking to relieve stress. Try new relaxation techniques to
help calm yourself:

    * Take a deep breath in through your nose, hold it for 5 seconds, exhale slowly through your mouth. Try this a few times until you feel yourself relax.
    * Listen to music.
    * Read a book or listen to an audiobook.
    * Try yoga, tai chi, or visualization. 

**EXERCISE**

Exercise has many benefits. Moving your body may help reduce cravings. It can
also give you a feeling of wellbeing and calm.

If you only have only a little time, take a short break and walk up and down
the stairs, jog in place, or do squats. If you have more time, go to the gym,
take a walk, bike ride, or do something else active for 30 minutes or more.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you do not think you can quit on your own, call your health care provider.
Nicotine replacement therapy may help you stave off cravings through the first
and hardest stage of quitting.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Quitting smoking: help for cravings and tough
situations. www.cancer.org/healthy/stay-away-from-tobacco/guide-quitting-
smoking/quitting-smoking-help-for-cravings-and-tough-situations.html. Updated
October 7, 2016. Accessed August 10, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Tips from former smokers.
www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips. Updated September 25, 2018. Accessed August
10, 2018.

George TP. Nicotine and tobacco. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 32.

National Cancer Institute website. How to handle withdrawal symptoms and
triggers when you decide to quit smoking. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-
prevention/risk/tobacco/withdrawal-fact-sheet. Updated October 29, 2010.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

Ussher MH, Taylor AH, Faulkner GE. Exercise interventions for smoking
cessation. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2014;(8):CD002295. PMID: 25170798
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25170798.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Quitting Smoking

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

