Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007438.htm    
                                Description: Nicotine replacement therapy is a treatment to help people stop smoking. It uses products that supply low doses of nicotine. These products do not contain many of the toxins found in smoke. The goal of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nicotine replacement therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007438.htm

# Nicotine replacement therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nicotine replacement therapy is a treatment to help people stop smoking. It
uses products that supply low doses of nicotine. These products do not contain
many of the toxins found in smoke. The goal of therapy is to cut down on
cravings for nicotine and ease the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal.

## Information

Before you start using a nicotine replacement product, here are some things to
know:

    * The more cigarettes you smoke, the higher the dose you may need to start.
    * Adding a counseling program will make you more likely to quit.
    * DO NOT smoke while using nicotine replacement. It can cause nicotine to build up to toxic levels.
    * Nicotine replacement helps prevent weight gain while you are using it. You may still gain weight when you stop all nicotine use.
    * The dose of nicotine should be slowly decreased. 

TYPES OF NICOTINE REPLACEMENT THERAPY

Nicotine supplements come in many forms:

    * Gum
    * Inhalers
    * Lozenges
    * Nasal spray
    * Skin patch 

All of these work well if they are used correctly. People are more likely to
use the gum and patches correctly than other forms.

 **Nicotine patch**

You can buy nicotine patches without a prescription. Or, you can have your
health care provider prescribe the patch for you.

All nicotine patches are placed and used in similar ways:

    * A single patch is worn each day. It is replaced after 24 hours.
    * Place the patch on different areas above the waist and below the neck each day.
    * Put the patch on a hairless spot.
    * People who wear the patches for 24 hours will have fewer withdrawal symptoms.
    * If wearing the patch at night causes odd dreams, try sleeping without the patch.
    * People who smoke fewer than 10 cigarettes per day or who weigh less than 99 pounds (45 kilograms) should start with a lower dose patch (for example, 14 mg). 

**Nicotine gum or lozenge**

You can buy nicotine gum or lozenges without a prescription. Some people
prefer lozenges to the patch, because they can control the nicotine dose.

Tips for using the gum:

    * Follow the instructions that comes with the package.
    * If you are just starting to quit, chew 1 to 2 pieces each hour. DO NOT chew more than 20 pieces a day.
    * Chew the gum slowly until it develops a peppery taste. Then, keep it between the gum and cheek and store it there. This lets the nicotine be absorbed.
    * Wait at least 15 minutes after drinking coffee, tea, soft drinks, and acidic beverages before chewing a piece of gum.
    * People who smoke 25 or more cigarettes per day have better results with the 4 mg dose than with the 2 mg dose.
    * The goal is to stop using the gum by 12 weeks. Talk with your doctor before using the gum for a longer period. 

**Nicotine inhaler**

The nicotine inhaler looks like a plastic cigarette holder. It requires a
prescription in the United States.

    * Insert nicotine cartridges into the inhaler and "puff" for about 20 minutes. Do this up to 16 times a day.
    * The inhaler is quick-acting. It takes about the same time as the gum to act. It is faster than the 2 to 4 hours it takes for the patch to work.
    * The inhaler satisfies oral urges.
    * Most of the nicotine vapor does not go into the airways of the lung. Some people have mouth or throat irritation and cough with the inhaler. 

It can help to use the inhaler and patch together when quitting.

 **Nicotine nasal spray**

The nasal spray needs to be prescribed by a provider.

The spray gives a quick dose of nicotine to satisfy a craving you are unable
to ignore. Levels of nicotine peak within 5 to 10 minutes after using the
spray.

    * Follow your provider's instructions about how to use the spray. When you're starting to quit, you may be told to spray 1 to 2 times in each nostril, every hour. You should not spray more than 80 times in 1 day.
    * The spray should not be used for longer than 6 months.
    * The spray can irritate the nose, eyes, and throat. These side effects often go away in a few days. 

SIDE EFFECTS AND RISKS

All nicotine products may cause side effects. Symptoms are more likely when
you use very high doses. Reducing the dose can prevent these symptoms. Side
effects include:

    * Headaches
    * Nausea and other digestive problems
    * Problems getting to sleep in the first few days, most often with the patch. This problem usually passes. 

SPECIAL CONCERNS

Nicotine patches are OK for use by most people with stable heart or blood
circulation problems. But, the unhealthy cholesterol levels (lower HDL level)
caused by smoking do not get better until the nicotine patch is stopped.

Nicotine replacement may not be completely safe in pregnant women. The unborn
children of women who use the patch may have a faster heart rate.

Keep all nicotine products away from children. Nicotine is a poison.

    * The concern is greater for small children.
    * Call the doctor or a poison control center right away if a child has been exposed to a nicotine replacement product, even for a short time. 

## Alternative Names

Smoking cessation - nicotine replacement; Tobacco - nicotine replacement
therapy

## References

George TP. Nicotine and tobacco. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;2016:chap 32.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Behavioral and pharmacotherapy
interventions for tobacco smoking cessation in adults, including pregnant
women: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;163(8):622-634. PMID: 26389730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389730.

US Food and Drug Administration website. Want to quit smoking? FDA-approved
products can help. www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm198176.htm.
Updated December 11, 2017. Accessed February 26, 2019.

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Quitting
Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/QuittingSmoking_thumb.jpg)Quitting
Smoking _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

