Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000855.htm    
                                Description: As you learn how to live without cigarettes, you may slip up after you quit smoking. A slip is different than a total relapse. A slip occurs when you smoke one or more cigarettes, but then go back to not    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to stop smoking: Dealing with a slip up

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000855.htm

# How to stop smoking: Dealing with a slip up

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

As you learn how to live without cigarettes, you may slip up after you quit
smoking. A slip is different than a total relapse. A slip occurs when you
smoke one or more cigarettes, but then go back to not smoking. By acting right
away, you can get back on track after a slip.

## Tips if you Slip

These tips can help you stop a slip from becoming a relapse to full-time
smoking.

 **Stop smoking again right away.** If you bought a pack of cigarettes,
destroy the rest of the pack. If you bummed a cigarette from a friend, ask
that friend not to give you any more cigarettes.

 **DO NOT beat yourself up.** Many people quit smoking several times before
they quit for good. If you get too stressed after a slip, it could make you
want to smoke even more.

 **Get back to basics.** Remind yourself why you want to quit. Post the top 3
reasons by your computer, in your car, on the refrigerator, or someplace else
you will see it throughout the day.

 **Learn from it.** Look at what made you slip, then take steps to avoid that
situation in the future. Triggers for a slip can include:

    * Old habits like smoking in the car or after a meal
    * Being around people who smoke
    * Drinking alcohol
    * Smoking first thing in the morning 

**Adopt new habits.** Once you figure out what made you slip, plan new ways of
resisting the urge to smoke. For instance:

    * Give your car a complete cleaning and make it a smoke-free zone.
    * Brush your teeth right after every meal.
    * If your friends light up, excuse yourself so you do not have to watch them smoke.
    * Limit how much you drink. You might need to avoid alcohol for a while after you quit.
    * Set a new morning or evening routine that does not include cigarettes. 

**Build coping skills.** You might have slipped in response to a stressful day
or strong emotions. Develop new ways to deal with stress so you can get
through tough times without cigarettes.

    * Learn how to deal with cravings
    * Read up on stress management and practice the techniques
    * Join a support group or program to help you quit
    * Talk to a friend or family member you trust 

**Continue nicotine replacement therapy.** You may have heard that you cannot
smoke and use nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) at the same time. While this
is true, a temporary slip does not mean you have to stop NRT. If you are using
nicotine gum or other form of NRT, keep it up. It might help you resist the
next cigarette.

Keep a slip in perspective. If you smoke a cigarette, look at it as a one-time
mistake. A slip does not mean you failed. You can still quit for good.

## References

American Cancer Society website. Quitting smoking: help for cravings and tough
situations. www.cancer.org/healthy/stay-away-from-tobacco/guide-quitting-
smoking/quitting-smoking-help-for-cravings-and-tough-situations.html. Updated
October 7, 2016. Accessed August 10, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Tips from former smokers.
www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips. Updated May 23, 2018. Accessed August 10,
2018.

George TP. Nicotine and tobacco. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 32.

National Cancer Institute website. How to handle withdrawal symptoms and
triggers when you decide to quit smoking. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-
prevention/risk/tobacco/withdrawal-fact-sheet. Updated October 29, 2010.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

Ussher MH, Taylor AH, Faulkner GE. Exercise interventions for smoking
cessation. _Cochrane Database System Rev_. 2014;(8):CD002295. PMID: 25170798
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25170798.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Quitting Smoking

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

