Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003194.htm    
                                Description: Spasms are contractions of the muscles of the hands, thumbs, feet, or toes. Spasms are usually brief, but they can be severe and painful.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hand or foot spasms

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003194.htm

# Hand or foot spasms

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spasms are contractions of the muscles of the hands, thumbs, feet, or toes.
Spasms are usually brief, but they can be severe and painful.

## Considerations

Symptoms depend on the cause. They may include:

    * Cramping
    * Fatigue
    * Muscle weakness
    * Numbness, tingling, or a "pins and needles" feeling
    * Twitching
    * Uncontrolled, purposeless, rapid motions 

Nighttime leg cramps are common in older people.

## Causes

Cramps or spasms in the muscles often have no clear cause.

Possible causes of hand or foot spasms include:

    * Abnormal levels of electrolytes, or minerals, in the body 
    * Brain disorders, such as Parkinson disease, multiple sclerosis, dystonia, and Huntington disease
    * Chronic kidney disease and dialysis 
    * Damage to a single nerve or nerve group (mononeuropathy) or multiple nerves (polyneuropathy) that are connected to muscles 
    * Dehydration (not having enough fluids in your body) 
    * Hyperventilation,Â which is rapid or deep breathing that can occur with anxiety or panic 
    * Muscle cramps, usually caused by overuse during sports or work activity
    * Pregnancy, more often during the third trimester
    * Thyroid disorders
    * Too little vitamin D
    * Use of certain medicines

## Home Care

If vitamin D deficiency is the cause, vitamin D supplements may be suggested
by the health care provider. Calcium supplements may also help.

Being active helps keep muscles loose. Aerobic exercise, especially swimming,
and strength building exercises are helpful. But care must be taken not to
overdo activity, which may worsen the spasms.

Drinking plenty of fluids during exercise is also important.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you notice recurrent spasms of your hands or feet, call your provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your medical history
and symptoms.

Blood and urine tests may be done. Tests may include:

    * Potassium, calcium and magnesium levels.
    * Hormone levels. 
    * Kidney function tests. 
    * Vitamin D levels (25-OH vitamin D).
    * Nerve conduction and electromyography tests may be ordered to determine if nerve or muscle disease is present.

Treatment depends on the cause of the spasms. For example, if they are due to
dehydration, your provider will likely suggest you to drink more fluids. Some
studies suggest that certain medicines and vitamins may help.

## Alternative Names

Foot spasms; Carpopedal spasm; Spasms of the hands or feet; Hand spasms

## Images

    * ![Muscular atrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9680t.jpg)Muscular atrophy
    * ![Lower leg muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9887t.jpg)Lower leg muscles

## References

Francisco GE, Li S. Spasticity. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine
& Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Jankovic J, Lang AE. Diagnosis and assessment of Parkinson disease and other
movement disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Smogorzewski MJ, Stubbs JR, Yu ASL. Disorders of calcium, magnesium, and
phosphate balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL,
eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

Swartz MH. Signs and symptoms of deficiency states. In: Swartz MH, ed.
_Textbook of Physical Diagnosis: History and Examination_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:Appendix B.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![Neuromuscular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuromuscularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neuromuscular
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

