Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003297.htm    
                                Description: Spasticity is stiff or rigid muscles. It may also be called unusual tightness or increased muscle tone. Reflexes (for example, a knee-jerk reflex) are stronger or exaggerated. The condition can interfere    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spasticity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003297.htm

# Spasticity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spasticity is stiff or rigid muscles. It may also be called unusual tightness
or increased muscle tone. Reflexes (for example, a knee-jerk reflex) are
stronger or exaggerated. The condition can interfere with walking, movement,
speech, and many other activities of daily living.

## Considerations

Spasticity is often caused by damage to the part of the brain that is involved
in movements under your control. It may also occur from damage to the nerves
that go from the brain to the spinal cord.

Symptoms of spasticity include:

    * Abnormal posture
    * Carrying the shoulder, arm, wrist, and finger at an abnormal angle because of muscle tightness
    * Exaggerated deep tendon reflexes (the knee-jerk or other reflexes)
    * Repetitive jerky motions (clonus), especially when you are touched or moved
    * Scissoring (crossing of the legs as the tips of scissors would close)
    * Pain or deformity of the affected area of the body

Spasticity may also affect speech. Severe, long-term spasticity may lead to
contracture of muscles. This can reduce range of motion or leave the joints
bent.

## Causes

Spasticity may be caused by any of the following:

    * Adrenoleukodystrophy (disorder that disrupt the breakdown of certain fats)
    * Brain damage caused by lack of oxygen, as can occur in near drowning or near suffocation
    * Cerebral palsy (group of disorders that can involve brain and nervous system functions)
    * Head injury
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Neurodegenerative illness (illnesses that damage the brain and nervous system over time)
    * Phenylketonuria (disorder in which the body can't break down the amino acid phenylalanine)
    * Spinal cord injury
    * Stroke

This list does not include all conditions that can cause spasticity.

## Home Care

Exercise, including muscle stretching, can help make symptoms less severe.
Physical therapy is also helpful.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

    * The spasticity gets worse
    * You notice deformity of the affected areas

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your doctor will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms,
including:

    * When was it first noticed?
    * How long has it lasted?
    * Is it always present?
    * How severe is it?
    * Which muscles are affected?
    * What makes it better?
    * What makes it worse?
    * What other symptoms are present?

After determining the cause of your spasticity, the doctor may refer you to a
physical therapist. Physical therapy involves different exercises, including
muscle stretching and strengthening exercises. Physical therapy exercises can
be taught to parents who can then help their child do them at home.

Other treatments may include:

    * Medicines to treat spasticity. These need to be taken as instructed.
    * Botulinum toxin that can be injected into the spastic muscles.
    * In rare cases, a pump used to directly deliver medicine into the spinal fluid and nervous system.
    * Sometimes surgery to release the tendon or to cut the nerve-muscle pathway. 

## Alternative Names

Muscle stiffness; Hypertonia

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Griggs RC, Jozefowicz RF, Aminoff MJ. Approach to the patient with neurologic
disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 396.

McGee S. Examination of the motor system: approach to weakness. In: McGee S,
ed. _Evidence-Based Physical Diagnosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 61.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Neuromuscular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuromuscularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neuromuscular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

