Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003188.htm    
                                Description: Muscle atrophy is the wasting or loss of muscle tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Muscle atrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003188.htm

# Muscle atrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Muscle atrophy is the wasting or loss of muscle tissue.

## Causes

There are three types of muscle atrophy: physiologic, pathologic, and
neurogenic.

Physiologic atrophy is caused by not using the muscles enough. This type of
atrophy can often be reversed with exercise and better nutrition. People who
are most affected are those who:

    * Have seated jobs, health problems that limit movement, or decreased activity levels
    * Are bedridden
    * Cannot move their limbs because of stroke or other brain disease
    * Are in a place that lacks gravity, such as during space flights 

Pathologic atrophy is seen with aging, starvation, and diseases such as
Cushing disease (because of taking too much medicines called corticosteroids).

Neurogenic atrophy is the most severe type of muscle atrophy. It can be from
an injury to, or disease of a nerve that connects to the muscle. This type of
muscle atrophy tends to occur more suddenly than physiologic atrophy.

Examples of diseases affecting the nerves that control muscles:

    * Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrig disease)
    * Damage to a single nerve, such as carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Guillain-Barre syndrome
    * Nerve damage caused by injury, diabetes, toxins, or alcohol
    * Polio (poliomyelitis)
    * Spinal cord injury 

Although people can adapt to muscle atrophy, even minor muscle atrophy causes
some loss of movement or strength.

Other causes of muscle atrophy may include:

    * Burns
    * Long-term corticosteroid therapy
    * Malnutrition
    * Muscular dystrophy and other diseases of the muscle
    * Osteoarthritis
    * Rheumatoid arthritis

## Home Care

An exercise program may help treat muscle atrophy. Exercises may include ones
done in a swimming pool to reduce the muscle workload, and other types of
rehabilitation. Your health care provider can tell you more about this.

People who cannot actively move one or more joints can do exercises using
braces or splints.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider for an appointment if you have unexplained or long-term
muscle loss. You can often see this when you compare one hand, arm, or leg to
the other.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical examination and ask about your medical
history and symptoms, including:

    * When did the muscle atrophy begin?
    * Is it getting worse?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

The provider will look at your arms and legs and measure muscle size. This may
help determine which nerves are affected.

Tests that may be performed include:

    * Blood tests
    * CT scans
    * Electromyography (EMG)
    * MRI scans
    * Muscle or nerve biopsy
    * Nerve conduction studies
    * X-rays 

Treatment may include physical therapy, ultrasound therapy and, in some cases,
surgery to correct a contracture.

## Alternative Names

Muscle wasting; Wasting; Atrophy of the muscles

## Images

    * ![Active vs. inactive muscle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19477t.jpg)Active vs. inactive muscle
    * ![Muscular atrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9680t.jpg)Muscular atrophy

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Musculoskeletal system.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 22.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![Neuromuscular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuromuscularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neuromuscular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

