Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000089.htm    
                                Description: The nervous system is composed of two divisions, the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS contains the brain and the spinal cord and the PNS consists of thousands of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Nerve conduction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000089.htm

# Nerve conduction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200011_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200011_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The nervous system is composed of two divisions, the central nervous system
(CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS contains the brain and the
spinal cord and the PNS consists of thousands of nerves that connect the
spinal cord to muscles and sensory receptors.

A peripheral nerve is composed of nerve bundles (fascicles) that contain
hundreds of individual nerve fibers (neurons). Neurons consist of dendrites,
axon, and cell body. The dendrites are the tree-like structures that receive
signals from other neurons and from special sensory cells that sense the
body's surrounding environment. The cell body is the headquarters of the
neuron and contains its genetic information in the form of DNA. The axon
transmits signals away from the cell body to other neurons.

Many neurons are insulated like pieces of electrical wire. This insulation
protects them and also allows their signals to move faster along the axon.
Without this insulation, signals from the brain might never reach the outlying
muscle groups in the limbs.

The operation of the nervous system depends on the flow of communication
between neurons. For an electrical signal to travel between two neurons, it
must first be converted to a chemical signal, which then crosses a space of
about a millionth of an inch wide. The space is called a synapse, and the
chemical signal is called a neurotransmitter.

Neurotransmitters allow the billions of neurons in the nervous system to
communicate with one another, making the nervous system the master
communication system of the body.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Degenerative Nerve Diseases
    * Neuromuscular Disorders
    * Peripheral Nerve Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

