Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000710.htm    
                                Description: Lambert-Eaton syndrome (LES) is a rare disorder in which faulty communication between nerves and muscles leads to muscle weakness.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lambert-Eaton syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000710.htm

# Lambert-Eaton syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lambert-Eaton syndrome (LES) is a rare disorder in which faulty communication
between nerves and muscles leads to muscle weakness.

## Causes

LES is an autoimmune disorder.Â This means your immune system mistakenly
targets healthy cells and tissues in the body. With LES, antibodiesÂ produced
by the immune system attack nerve cells. This makes nerves cells unable to
release enough of a chemical called acetylcholine. This chemical transmits
impulses between nerves and muscles. The result is muscle weakness.

LES may occur with cancers such as small cell lung cancerÂ or autoimmune
disorders such as vitiligo, which leads to a loss of skin pigment.

LES affects men more often than women. Common age of occurrence is around age
60 years. LES is rare in children.

## Symptoms

Weakness or loss of movement that can be more or less severe, including:

    * Difficulty climbing stairs, walking, or lifting things
    * Muscle pain
    * Drooping of the head
    * The need to use the hands to get up from a sitting or lying position
    * Problems talking
    * Problems chewing or swallowing, which may include gagging or choking
    * Vision changes, such as blurry vision, double vision, and problem keeping a steady gaze

Weakness is generally mild in LES. Leg muscles are mostly affected. Weakness
may improve after exercise, but continuous exertion causes fatigue in some
cases.

Symptoms related to the other parts of the nervous system often occur, and
include:

    * Blood pressure changes
    * Dizziness upon standing
    * Dry mouth
    * Erectile dysfunction
    * Dry eyes
    * Constipation
    * Decreased sweating

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms. The exam may show:

    * Decreased reflexes 
    * Possible loss of muscle tissue 
    * Weakness or paralysis that gets slightly better with activity 

Tests to help diagnose and confirm LES may include:

    * Blood tests to look for the antibodies that attack the nerves
    * Electromyography (EMG) to test the health of the muscle fibers 
    * Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) to test the speed of electrical activity along nerves 

CT scan and MRI of the chest and the abdomen, followed by bronchoscopy for
smokers may be done to exclude cancer. PET scan may also be done if a lung
tumor is suspected.

## Treatment

The main goals of treatment are to:

    * Identify and treat any underlying disorders, such as lung cancer
    * Give treatment to help with the weakness

Plasma exchange, or plasmapheresis, is a treatment that helps remove from the
body any harmful proteins (antibodies) that are interfering with nerve
function. This involves removing blood plasma that contains the antibodies.
Other proteins (such as albumin) or donated plasma are then infused into the
body.

Another procedure involves using intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) to infuse a
large amount of helpful antibodies directly into the bloodstream.

Medicines that may also be tried include:

    * Drugs that suppress the immune system's response
    * Anticholinesterase drugs to improve muscle tone (although these are not very effective when given alone)
    * Drugs that increase the release of acetylcholine from nerve cells

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms of LES may improve by treating the underlying disease, suppressing
the immune system, or removing the antibodies. However, paraneoplastic LES may
not respond as well to treatment. (Paraneoplastic LES symptoms are due to an
altered immune system response to a tumor). Death is due to underlying
malignancy.

## Possible Complications

Complications of LES may include:

    * Difficulty breathing, including respiratory failure (less common)
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Infections, such as pneumonia
    * Injuries from falls and problems with coordination

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of LES develop.

## Alternative Names

Myasthenic syndrome; Eaton-Lambert syndrome; Lambert-Eaton myasthenic
syndrome; LEMS; LES

## Images

    * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles

## References

Evoli A, Vincent A. Disorders of neuromuscular transmission. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 422.

Moss HE. Eyelid and facial nerve disorders. In: Liu GT, Volpe NJ, Galetta SL,
eds. _Liu, Volpe, and Galetta's Neuro-Ophthalmology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 14.

Sanders DB, Guptill JT. Disorders of neuromuscular transmission. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 109.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Neuromuscular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuromuscularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neuromuscular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

