Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003296.htm    
                                Description: Muscle twitches are fine movements of a small area of muscle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Muscle twitching

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003296.htm

# Muscle twitching

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Muscle twitches are fine movements of a small area of muscle.

## Considerations

Muscle twitching is caused by minor muscle contractions in the area, or
uncontrollable twitching of a muscle group that is served by a single motor
nerve fiber.

Muscle twitches are minor and often go unnoticed. Some are common and normal.
Others are signs of a nervous system disorder.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Autoimmune disorders, such as Isaac syndrome.
    * Drug overdose (caffeine, amphetamines, or other stimulants).
    * Lack of sleep.
    * Drug side effect (such as from diuretics, corticosteroids, or estrogens).
    * Exercise (twitching is seen after exercise).
    * Lack of nutrients in the diet (deficiency).
    * Stress.
    * Medical conditions that cause metabolic disorders, including low potassium, kidney disease, and uremia.
    * Twitches not caused by disease or disorders (benign twitches), often affecting the eyelids, calf, or thumb. These twitches are normal and quite common, and are often triggered by stress or anxiety. These twitches can come and go, and usually do not last for more than a few days. 

Nervous system conditions that can cause muscle twitching include:

    * AmyotrophicÂ lateral sclerosis (ALS), also sometimes called Lou Gehrig disease
    * Neuropathy or damage to the nerve that leads to a muscle
    * Spinal muscular atrophy
    * Weak muscles (myopathy) 

Symptoms of a nervous system disorder include:

    * Loss of, or change in, sensation
    * Loss of muscle size (wasting)
    * Weakness 

## Home Care

No treatment is needed for benign muscle twitching in most cases. In other
cases, treating an underlying medical cause may improve symptoms.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have long-term or persistent muscle
twitches or if twitching occurs with weakness or loss of muscle.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical exam.

Medical history questions may include:

    * When did you first notice the twitching?
    * How long does it last?
    * How often do you experience twitching?
    * What muscles are affected?
    * Is it always in the same location?
    * Are you pregnant?
    * What other symptoms do you have?

Tests depend on the suspected cause, and may include:

    * Blood tests to look for problems with electrolytes, thyroid gland function, and blood chemistry
    * CT scan of the spine or brain
    * Electromyogram (EMG)
    * Nerve conduction studies
    * MRI scan of the spine or brain

## Alternative Names

Muscle fasciculation; Fasciculations of muscle

## Images

    * ![Deep anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9676t.jpg)Deep anterior muscles
    * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
    * ![Tendons and muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8956t.jpg)Tendons and muscles
    * ![Lower leg muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17238t.jpg)Lower leg muscles

## References

Griggs RC, JÃ³zefowicz RF, Aminoff MJ. Approach to the patient with neurologic
disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 396.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

Weissenborn K, Lockwood AH. Toxic and metabolic encephalopathies. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 84.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![Neuromuscular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuromuscularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neuromuscular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

