Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007472.htm    
                                Description: Apraxia is a disorder of the brain and nervous system in which a person is unable to perform tasks or movements when asked, even though:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Apraxia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007472.htm

# Apraxia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Apraxia is a disorder of the brain and nervous system in which a person is
unable to perform tasks or movements when asked, even though:

    * The request or command is understood
    * They are willing to perform the task
    * The muscles needed to perform the task work properly
    * The task may have already been learned

## Causes

Apraxia is caused by damage to the brain. When apraxia develops in a person
who was previously able to perform the tasks or abilities, it is called
acquired apraxia.

The most common causes of acquired apraxia are:

    * Brain tumor
    * Condition that causes gradual worsening of the brain and nervous system (neurodegenerative illness)
    * Dementia
    * Stroke
    * Traumatic brain injury 

Apraxia may also be seen at birth. Symptoms appear as the child grows and
develops. The cause is unknown.

Apraxia of speech is often present along with another speech disorder called
aphasia. Depending on the cause of apraxia, a number of other brain or nervous
system problems may be present.

## Symptoms

A person with apraxia is unable to put together the correct muscle movements.
At times, a completely different word or action is used than the one the
person intended to speak or make. The person is often aware of the mistake.

Symptoms of apraxia of speech include:

    * Distorted, repeated, or left out speech sounds or words. The person has difficulty putting words together in the correct order.
    * Struggling to pronounce the right word
    * More difficulty using longer words, either all the time, or sometimes
    * Ability to use short, everyday phrases or sayings (such as "How are you?") without a problem
    * Better writing ability than speaking ability 

Other forms of apraxia include:

    * Buccofacial or orofacial apraxia. Inability to carry out movements of the face on demand, such as licking the lips, sticking out the tongue, or whistling.
    * Ideational apraxia. Inability to carry out learned, complex tasks in the proper order, such as putting on socks before putting on shoes.
    * Ideomotor apraxia. Inability to voluntarily perform a learned task when given the necessary objects. For instance, if given a screwdriver, the person may try to write with it as if it were a pen.
    * Limb-kinetic apraxia. Difficulty making precise movements with an arm or leg. It becomes impossible to button a shirt or tie a shoe. 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be done if the cause of the disorder is not known:

    * CT or MRI scans of the brain may help show a tumor, stroke, or other brain injury.
    * An electroencephalogram (EEG) may be used to rule out epilepsy as a cause of the apraxia.
    * A spinal tap may be done to check for inflammation or an infection that affects the brain. 

Standardized language and intellectual tests should be done if apraxia of
speech is suspected. Testing for other learning disabilities may also be
needed.

## Treatment

People with apraxia can benefit from treatment by a health care team. The team
should also include family members.

Occupational and speech therapists play an important role in helping both
people with apraxia and their caregivers learn ways to deal with the disorder.

During treatment, therapists will focus on:

    * Repeating sounds over and over to teach mouth movements
    * Slowing down the person's speech
    * Teaching different techniques to help with communication 

Recognition and treatment of depression is important for people with apraxia.

To help with communication, family and friends should:

    * Avoid giving complex directions.
    * Use simple phrases to avoid misunderstandings.
    * Speak in a normal tone of voice. Speech apraxia is not a hearing problem.
    * DO NOT assume that the person understands.
    * Provide communication aids, if possible, depending on the person and condition. 

Other tips for daily living include:

    * Maintain a relaxed, calm environment.
    * Take time to show someone with apraxia how to do a task, and allow enough time for them to do so. DO NOT ask them to repeat the task if they are clearly struggling with it and doing so will increase frustration.
    * Suggest other ways to do the same things. For example, buy shoes with a hook and loop closure instead of laces. 

If depression or frustration is severe, mental health counseling may help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people with apraxia are no longer able to be independent and may have
trouble performing everyday tasks. Ask the health care provider which
activities may or may not be safe. Avoid activities that may cause injury and
take the proper safety measures.

## Possible Complications

Having apraxia may lead to:

    * Learning problems
    * Low self-esteem
    * Social problems

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact the provider if someone has difficulty performing everyday tasks or
has other symptoms of apraxia after a stroke or brain injury.

## Prevention

Reducing your risk of stroke and brain injury may help prevent conditions that
lead to apraxia.

## Alternative Names

Verbal apraxia; Dyspraxia; Speech disorder - apraxia; Childhood apraxia of
speech; Apraxia of speech; Acquired apraxia

## References

Halpern H, Goldfarb RM, eds. _Language and Motor Speech Disorders in Adults_.
3rd ed. Burlington, MA: Jones and Bartlett Learning. 2013.

Kirshner HS. Dysarthria and apraxia of speech. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neuromuscular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuromuscularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neuromuscular
Disorders _Read more_

![Speech and Communication
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechDisorders_thumb.jpg)Speech and
Communication Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

