Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001424.htm    
                                Description: Myotonia congenita is an inherited condition that affects muscle relaxation. It is congenital, meaning that it is present from birth. It occurs more frequently in northern Scandinavia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myotonia congenita

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001424.htm

# Myotonia congenita

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Myotonia congenita is an inherited condition that affects muscle relaxation.
It is congenital, meaning that it is present from birth. It occurs more
frequently in northern Scandinavia.

## Causes

Myotonia congenita is caused by a genetic change (mutation). It is passed down
from eitherÂ one or both parents to their children (inherited).

Myotonia congenita is caused by a problem in the part of the muscle cells that
are needed for muscles to relax. Abnormal repeated electrical signals occur in
the muscles, causing a stiffness called myotonia.

## Symptoms

The hallmark of this condition is myotonia. This means the muscles are unable
to quickly relax after contracting. For example, after a handshake, the person
is only very slowly able to open and pull away their hand.

Early symptoms may include:

    * Difficulty swallowing 
    * Gagging 
    * Stiff movements that improve when they are repeated 
    * Shortness of breath or tightening of the chest at the beginning of exercise
    * Frequent falls
    * Difficulty opening eyes after forcing them closed or crying

Children with myotonia congenita often look muscular and well-developed. They
may not have symptoms of myotonia congenita until age 2 or 3.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may ask if there is a family history of myotonia
congenita.

Tests include:

    * Electromyography (EMG, a test of the electrical activity of the muscles)
    * Genetic testing
    * Muscle biopsy

## Treatment

Mexiletine is a medicine that treats symptoms of myotonia congenita. Other
treatments include:

    * Phenytoin
    * Procainamide
    * Quinine (rarely used now, due to side effects)
    * Tocainide
    * Carbamazepine

## Support Groups

Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on myotonia congenita:

    * Muscular Dystrophy Association -- www.mda.org/disease/myotonia-congenita
    * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/myotonia-congenita

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this condition can do well. Symptoms only occur when a movement is
first started. After a few repetitions, the muscle relaxes and the movement
becomes normal.

Some people experience the opposite effectÂ (paradoxical myotonia) and get
worse with movement. Their symptoms may improve later in life.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Aspiration pneumonia caused by swallowing difficulties
    * Frequent choking, gagging, or trouble swallowing in an infant
    * Long-term (chronic) joint problems
    * Weakness of the abdominal muscles 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of myotonia congenita.

## Prevention

Couples who want to have children and who have a family history of myotonia
congenita should consider genetic counseling.

## Alternative Names

Thomsen's disease; Becker's disease

## Images

    * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
    * ![Deep anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9676t.jpg)Deep anterior muscles
    * ![Tendons and muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8956t.jpg)Tendons and muscles
    * ![Lower leg muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17238t.jpg)Lower leg muscles

## References

Kerchner GA, PtÃ¡cek LJ. Channelopathies: episodic and electrical disorders of
the nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 99.

Sarnat HB. Muscular dystrophies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 609.

Selcen D. Muscle diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 421.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![Neuromuscular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuromuscularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neuromuscular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

