Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007419.htm    
                                Description: A stroke happens when blood flow to any part of the brain stops.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Recovering after stroke

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007419.htm

# Recovering after stroke

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stroke happens when blood flow to any part of the brain stops.

Each person has a different recovery time and need for long-term care.
Problems with moving, thinking, and talking often improve in the first weeks
or months after a stroke. Some people will keep improving months or years
after a stroke.

## Information

**WHERE TO LIVE AFTER A STROKE**

Most people will need stroke rehabilitation (rehab) to help them recover after
they leave the hospital. Stroke rehab will help you regain the ability to care
for yourself.

Most types of therapy can be done where you live, including in your home.

    * People who are not able to care for themselves at home after a stroke may have therapy in a special part of a hospital or in a nursing or rehabilitation center.
    * Those who are able to go back home might go to a special clinic or have someone come to their home. 

Whether you can go back home after a stroke depends on:

    * Whether you can take care of yourself
    * How much help there will be at home
    * Whether the home is a safe place (for example, stairs in the home might not be safe for a stroke patient who has trouble walking) 

You may need to go to a boarding home, adult family home, or convalescent home
to have a safe environment.

For people who are cared for at home:

    * Changes may be needed to stay safe from falls in the home and bathroom, prevent wandering, and make the home easier to use. The bed and bathroom should be easy to reach. Items (such as throw rugs) that may cause a fall should be removed.
    * A number of devices can help with activities such as cooking or eating, bathing or showering, moving around the home or elsewhere, dressing and grooming, writing and using a computer, and many more activities.
    * Family counseling may help you cope with the changes needed for home care. Visiting nurses or aides, volunteer services, homemakers, adult protective services, adult day care, and other community resources (such as a local Department of Aging) may be helpful.
    * Legal advice may be needed. Advance directives, power of attorney, and other legal actions may make it easier to make decisions about care. 

**SPEAKING AND COMMUNICATING**

After a stroke, some people may have problems finding a word or being able to
speak more than one word or phrase at a time. Or, they may have trouble
speaking at all. This is called aphasia.

    * People who have had a stroke may be able to put many words together, but they may not make sense. Many people do not know that what they are saying is not easy to understand. They may get frustrated when they realize other people cannot understand. Family and caregivers should learn how best to help communicate.
    * It can take up to 2 years to recover speech. Not everyone will fully recover. 

A stroke can also damage the muscles that help you speak. As a result, these
muscles do not move the right way when you try to speak. This is called
dysarthria.

A speech and language therapist can work with you and your family or
caregivers. You can learn new ways to communicate.

 **THINKING AND MEMORY**

After a stroke, people may have:

    * Changes in their ability to think or reason
    * Changes in behavior and sleep patterns
    * Memory problems
    * Poor judgment 

These changes may lead to:

    * An increase in the need for safety measures
    * Changes in ability to drive
    * Other changes or precautions

Depression after a stroke is common. Depression can start soon after a stroke,
but symptoms may not begin for up to 2 years after the stroke. Treatments for
depression include:

    * Increased social activity. More visits in the home or going to an adult day care center for activities.
    * Medicines for depression.
    * Visits to a therapist or counselor. 

**MUSCLE, JOINT, AND NERVE PROBLEMS**

Moving around and doing normal daily tasks such as dressing and feeding may be
harder after a stroke.

Muscles on one side of the body may be weaker or may not move at all. This may
involve only part of the arm or leg, or the whole side of the body.

    * Muscles on the weak side of the body may be very tight.
    * Different joints and muscles in the body may become hard to move. The shoulder and other joints may dislocate. 

Many of these problems can cause pain after a stroke. Pain may also occur from
changes in the brain itself. You may use pain medicines, but check with your
health care provider first. People who have pain due to tight muscles may get
medicines that help with muscle spasms.

Physical therapists, occupational therapists, and rehabilitation doctors will
help you relearn how to:

    * Dress, groom, and eat
    * Bathe, shower, and use the toilet
    * Use canes, walkers, wheelchairs, and other devices to stay as mobile as possible
    * Possibly return to work
    * Keep all of the muscles as strong as possible and stay as physically active as possible, even if you cannot walk
    * Manage muscle spasms or tightness with stretching exercises and braces that fit around the ankle, elbow, shoulder, and other joints 

**BLADDER AND BOWEL CARE**

A stroke can lead to problems with bladder or bowel control. These problems
may be caused by:

    * Damage to part of the brain that helps the bowels and bladder work smoothly
    * Not noticing the need to go to the bathroom
    * Problems getting to the toilet in time 

Symptoms may include:

    * Loss of bowel control, diarrhea (loose bowel movements), or constipation (hard bowel movements)
    * Loss of bladder control, feeling the need to urinate often, or problems emptying the bladder 

Your provider may prescribe medicines to help with bladder control. You may
need a referral to a bladder or bowel specialist.

Sometimes, a bladder or bowel schedule will help. It can also help to place a
commode chair close to where you sit most of the day. Some people need a
permanent urinary catheter to drain urine from their body.

To prevent skin or pressure sores:

    * Clean up after incontinence
    * Change position often and know how to move in a bed, chair, or wheelchair
    * Make sure the wheelchair fits correctly
    * Have family members or other caregivers learn how to watch out for skin sores 

**SWALLOWING AND EATING AFTER A STROKE**

Swallowing problems may be due to a lack of attention when eating or damage to
the nerves that help you swallow.

Symptoms of swallowing problems are:

    * Coughing or choking, either during or after eating
    * Gurgling sounds from the throat during or after eating
    * Throat clearing after drinking or swallowing
    * Slow chewing or eating
    * Coughing food back up after eating
    * Hiccups after swallowing
    * Chest discomfort during or after swallowing 

A speech therapist can help with swallowing and eating problems after a
stroke. Diet changes, such as thickening liquids or eating pureed foods, may
be needed. Some people will need a permanent feeding tube, called a
gastrostomy.

Some people do not take in enough calories after a stroke. High-calorie foods
or food supplements that also contain vitamins or minerals can prevent weight
loss and keep you healthy.

 **OTHER IMPORTANT ISSUES**

Both men and women may have problems with sexual function after a stroke.
Medicines called phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (such as Viagra, Levitra,
or Cialis) may be helpful. Ask your provider whether these drugs are right for
you. Talking with a therapist or counselor may also help.

Treatment and lifestyle changes to prevent another stroke are important. This
includes healthy eating, controlling illnesses such as diabetes and high blood
pressure, and sometimes taking medicine to help prevent another stroke.

## Alternative Names

Stroke rehabilitation; Cerebrovascular accident - rehabilitation; Recovery
from stroke; Stroke - recovery; CVA - recovery

## Patient Instructions

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Brain aneurysm repair - discharge
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Daily bowel care program
    * Preventing pressure ulcers
    * Stroke - discharge 

## References

Dobkin BH. Neurological rehabilitation. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 57.

Rundek T, Sacco RL. Prognosis after stroke. In: Grotta JC, Albers GW,
Broderick JP, Kasner SE, et al, eds. _Stroke: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, and
Management_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

Stein J. Stroke. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 159.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stroke
Rehabilitation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StrokeRehabilitation_thumb.jpg)Stroke
Rehabilitation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

