Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001241.htm    
                                Description: Scoliosis is an abnormal curving of the spine. Your spine is your backbone. It runs straight down your back. Everyone    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scoliosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001241.htm

# Scoliosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scoliosis is an abnormal curving of the spine. Your spine is your backbone. It
runs straight down your back. Everyone's spine naturally curves a bit. But
people with scoliosis have a spine that curves too much. The spine might look
like the letter C or S.

![Scoliosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1728.jpg)

## Causes

Most of the time, the cause of scoliosis is unknown. This is called idiopathic
scoliosis. It is the most common type. It is grouped by age.

    * In children age 3 and younger, it is called infantile scoliosis.
    * In children age 4 through 10, it is called juvenile scoliosis.
    * In children age 11 through 18, it is called adolescent scoliosis.

Scoliosis most often affects girls. Some people are more likely to have
curving of the spine. Curving generally gets worse during a growth spurt.

Other types of scoliosis are:

    * Congenital scoliosis: This type of scoliosis is present at birth. It occurs when the baby's ribs or spine bones do not form properly.
    * Neuromuscular scoliosis: This type is caused by a nervous system problem that affectsÂ the muscles. Problems can include cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, spina bifida, and polio.

## Symptoms

Most often, there are no symptoms.

![Signs of scoliosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19466.jpg)

If there are symptoms, they may include:

    * Backache or low-back pain that goes down the legs
    * Weakness or tired feeling in the spine after sitting or standing for a long time
    * Uneven hips or shoulders (one shoulder may be higher than the other)
    * Shoulder pain
    * Spine curves more to one side 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. You will be asked to
bend forward. This makes your spine easier to see. It may be hard to see
changes in the early stages of scoliosis.

![Forward bend test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19465.jpg)

The exam may show:

    * One shoulder is higher than the other
    * The pelvis is tilted 

X-rays of the spine are done. X-rays are important because the actual curving
of the spine may be worse than what your doctor can see during an exam.

Other tests may include:

    * Spinal curve measurement (scoliometer screening)
    * X-rays of the spine to see how flexible the curvature is  

    * MRI of the spine
    * CT scan of the spine to look at the bony changes 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on many things:

    * The cause of scoliosis
    * Where the curve is in your spine
    * How big the curve is
    * If your body is still growing 

Most people with idiopathic scoliosis do not need treatment. But you should
still be checked by a doctor about every 6 months.

![Scoliosis brace](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19467.jpg)

If you are still growing, your doctor might recommend a back brace. A back
brace prevents further curving. There are many different types of braces. What
kind you get depends on the size and location of your curve. Your provider
will pick the best one for you and show you how to use it. Back braces can be
adjusted as you grow.

Back braces work best in people over age 10. Braces do not work for those with
congenital or neuromuscular scoliosis.

![Spinal fusion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19468.jpg)

You may need surgery if the spine curve is severe or getting worse very
quickly.

Surgery involves correcting the curve as much as possible:

    * Surgery is done with a cut through the back, belly area, or beneath the ribs.
    * The spine bones are held in place with 1 or 2 metal rods. The rods are held down with hooks and screws until the bone heals together.
    * After surgery, you may need to wear a brace for a while to keep the spine still. 

Scoliosis treatment may also include:

    * Emotional support: Some children, especially teens, may be self-conscious when using a back brace.
    * Physical therapy and other specialists to help explain the treatments and make sure the brace fits correctly. 

## Support Groups

Seek support and more information from organizations that specialize in
scoliosis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person with scoliosis does depends on the type, cause, and severity
of the curve. The more severe the curving, the more likely it will get worse
after the child stops growing.

People with mild scoliosis do well with braces. They usually do not have long-
term problems. Back pain may be more likely when the person gets older.

Outlook for those with neuromuscular or congenital scoliosis varies. They may
have another serious disorder, such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy,
so their goals are much different. Often, the goal of surgery is simply to
allow a child to be able to sit upright in a wheelchair.

Congenital scoliosis is difficult to treat and usually requires many
surgeries.

## Possible Complications

Complications of scoliosis can include:

    * Breathing problems (in severe scoliosis)
    * Low back pain
    * Lower self-esteem
    * Persistent pain if there is wear and tear of the spine bones
    * Spinal infection after surgery
    * Spine or nerve damage from an uncorrected curve or spinal surgery
    * Leakage of spinal fluid

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you suspect your child may have scoliosis.

## Prevention

Routine scoliosis screening is now done in middle schools. Such screening has
helped detect early scoliosis in many children. Back and abdominal muscle
strengthening can help stabilize the curvature.

## Alternative Names

Spinal curvature; Infantile scoliosis; Juvenile scoliosis

## Patient Instructions

    * Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - child

## Images

    * ![Scoliosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1114t.jpg)Scoliosis
    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Scoliosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1728t.jpg)Scoliosis
    * ![Spinal curves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19463t.jpg)Spinal curves
    * ![Signs of scoliosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19466t.jpg)Signs of scoliosis
    * ![Forward bend test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19465t.jpg)Forward bend test
    * ![Scoliosis brace](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19467t.jpg)Scoliosis brace
    * ![Spinal fusion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19468t.jpg)Spinal fusion

## References

Mistovich RJ, Spiegel DA. The spine. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 699.

Negrini S, Di Felice F, Donzelli S, Zaina F. Scoliosis and kyphosis. In:
Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 153.

Sure DR, LaBagnara M, Smith JS, Shaffrey CI. Pediatric spinal deformities and
deformity correction. In: Steinmetz MP, Benzel EC, eds. _Benzel's Spine
Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 158.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Scoliosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scoliosis2_thumb.jpg)Scoliosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

