Link: https://medlineplus.gov/learningdisabilities.html    
                                Description: Learning disabilities affect how people understand, remember and respond to information. Learn more on how to identify and cope with a learning disability.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Learning Disabilities

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/learningdisabilities.html

#  Learning Disabilities

Also called: Learning differences, Learning disorders

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is a learning disability?

Learning disabilities are conditions that affect the ability to learn. They
can cause problems with

    * Understanding what people are saying
    * Speaking
    * Reading
    * Writing
    * Doing math
    * Paying attention

Often, children have more than one kind of learning disability. They may also
have another condition, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD), which can make learning even more of a challenge.

### What causes learning disabilities?

Learning disabilities don't have anything to do with intelligence. They are
caused by differences in the brain, and they affect the way the brain
processes information. These differences are usually present at birth. But
there are certain factors that can play a role in the development of a
learning disability, including

    * Genetics
    * Environmental exposures (such as lead)
    * Problems during pregnancy (such as the mother's drug use)

### How do I know if my child has a learning disability?

The earlier you can find and treat a learning disability, the better.
Unfortunately, learning disabilities are usually not recognized until a child
is in school. If you notice that your child is struggling, talk to your
child's teacher or health care provider about an evaluation for a learning
disability. The evaluation may include a medical exam, a discussion of family
history, and intellectual and school performance testing.

### What are the treatments for learning disabilities?

The most common treatment for learning disabilities is special education. A
teacher or other learning specialist can help your child learn skills by
building on strengths and finding ways to make up for weaknesses. Educators
may try special teaching methods, make changes to the classroom, or use
technologies that can assist your child's learning needs. Some children also
get help from tutors or speech or language therapists.

A child with a learning disability may struggle with low self-esteem,
frustration, and other problems. Mental health professionals can help your
child understand these feelings, develop coping tools, and build healthy
relationships.

If your child has another condition such as ADHD, he or she will need
treatment for that condition as well.

NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

## Start Here

    * Children with Learning Disorders (American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry)
    * Keeping Up in School? Identifying Learning Problems ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Learning Disabilities ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Learning Disorders: Know the Signs, How to Help (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Types of Learning Problems (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * What Are Learning Disabilities? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * What Are the Symptoms of Learning Disabilities? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * How Are Learning Disabilities Diagnosed? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * What Are the Treatments for Learning Disabilities? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * How Learning Problems Are Managed (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Individualized Education Plans (IEPs) (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Interventions for Learning Disorders (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Dysgraphia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Dyslexia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Gerstmann's Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * What Are Reading Disorders? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: 47,XYY syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Aarskog-Scott syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Smith-Kingsmore syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: triple X syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Percentage of Children Aged 5--17 Years Ever Receiving a Diagnosis of Learning Disability, United States, 2007--2009 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dyslexia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Learning Disabilities ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Saliva cortisol, melatonin levels and circadian rhythm alterations in Chinese primary...
    * Article: Reading deficits correlate with cortical and subcortical volume changes in a...
    * Article: Context matters: A review to formulate a conceptual framework for coaching...
    * Learning Disabilities -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Dyslexia (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Learning Problems (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Understanding Dyslexia (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Learning Disabilities and ADHD (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Transition to Adulthood (Center for Parent Information and Resources)
    * Understanding Dyslexia (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Developmental reading disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Disorder of written expression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Mathematics disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Learning Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LearningDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Aarskog syndrome
    * Developmental reading disorder
    * Disorder of written expression
    * Mathematics disorder

## Related Health Topics

    * Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
    * Developmental Disabilities
    * Speech and Language Problems in Children

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Learning Disabilities is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 9 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 1 October 2014

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

