Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001522.htm    
                                Description: Substance use disorder occurs when a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001522.htm

# Substance use disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Substance use disorder occurs when a person's use of alcohol or another
substance (drug) leads to health issues or problems at work, school, or home.

This disorder is also called substance abuse.

## Causes

The exact cause of substance use disorder is not known. A person's genes, the
action of the drug, peer pressure, emotional distress, anxiety, depression,
and environmental stress can all be factors.

Many who develop a substance use problem have depression, attention deficit
disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, or another mental problem. A
stressful or chaotic lifestyle and low self-esteem are also common.

Children who grow up seeing their parents using drugs may have a high risk of
developing substance use problem later in life for both environmental and
genetic reasons.

Commonly used substances include:

    * Opiates and other narcotics are powerful painkillers that can cause drowsiness, and sometimes intense feelings of well-being, elation, happiness, excitement, and joy. These include heroin, opium, codeine, and narcotic pain medicines that may be prescribed by a doctor or bought illegally.
    * Stimulants are drugs that stimulate the brain and nervous system. They include cocaine and amphetamines, such as drugs used to treat ADHD (methylphenidate, or Ritalin). A person can start needing higher amounts of these drugs over time to feel the same effect.
    * Depressants cause drowsiness and reduce anxiety. They include alcohol, barbiturates, benzodiazepines (Valium, Ativan, Xanax), chloral hydrate, and paraldehyde. Using these substances can lead to addiction.
    * LSD, mescaline, psilocybin ("mushrooms"), and phencyclidine (PCP, or "angel dust") can cause a person to see things that are not there (hallucinations) and can lead to psychological addiction.
    * Marijuana (cannabis, or hashish). 

There are several stages of drug use that may lead to addiction. Young people
seem to move more quickly through the stages than do adults. Stages are:

    * Experimental use -- Typically involves peers, done for recreational use; the user may enjoy defying parents or other authority figures.
    * Regular use -- The user misses more and more school or work; worries about losing drug source; uses drugs to "fix" negative feelings; begins to stay away from friends and family; may change friends to those who are regular users; shows increased tolerance and ability to "handle" the drug.
    * Problem or risky use -- The user loses any motivation; does not care about school and work; has obvious behavior changes; thinking about drug use is more important than all other interests, including relationships; the user becomes secretive; may begin dealing drugs to help support habit; use of other, harder drugs may increase; legal problems may increase.
    * Addiction -- Cannot face daily life without drugs; denies problem; physical condition gets worse; loss of "control" over use; may become suicidal; financial and legal problems get worse; may have broken ties with family members or friends. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms and behaviors of drug use may include:

    * Confusion
    * Continuing to use drugs, even when health, work, or family are being harmed
    * Episodes of violence
    * Hostility when confronted about drug dependence
    * Lack of control over drug abuse, being unable to stop or reduce alcohol intake
    * Making excuses to use drugs
    * Missing work or school, or a decrease in performance
    * Need for daily or regular drug use to function
    * Neglecting to eat
    * Not caring about physical appearance
    * No longer taking part in activities because of drug abuse
    * Secretive behavior to hide drug use
    * Using drugs even when alone 

## Exams and Tests

Drug tests (toxicology screens) on blood and urine samples can show many
chemicals and drugs in the body. How sensitive the test is depends on the drug
itself, when the drug was taken, and the testing laboratory. Blood tests are
more likely to find a drug than urine tests, though urine drug screens are
done more often.

## Treatment

Substance use disorder is a serious condition and not easy to treat. The best
care and treatment involves trained professionals.

Treatment begins with recognizing the problem. Though denial is a common
symptom of addiction, people who are addicted have far less denial if they are
treated with empathy and respect, rather than told what to do or being
confronted.

The substance may either be slowly withdrawn or stopped abruptly. Support for
physical and emotional symptoms, as well as staying drug free (abstinence) are
also key to treatment.

    * People with drug overdose may need emergency treatment in the hospital. The exact treatment depends on the drug used.
    * Detoxification (detox) is the withdrawal of the substance abruptly in an environment where there is good support. Detoxification can be done on an inpatient or outpatient basis.
    * At times, another drug with a similar action or effect on the body is taken, as the dose is slowly decreased to reduce the side effects and risks of withdrawal. For example, for narcotic addiction, methadone or similar drugs may be used to prevent withdrawal and continued use. 

Residential treatment programs monitor and address possible withdrawal
symptoms and behaviors. These programs use techniques to get users to
recognize their behaviors and learn how not to go back to using (relapse).

If the person also has depression or another mental health disorder, it should
be treated. In many cases, a person starts using drugs to try to self-treat
mental illness.

## Support Groups

Many support groups are available in the community. They include:

    * Narcotics Anonymous (NA) -- www.na.org
    * Alateen -- al-anon.org/for-members/group-resources/alateen
    * Al-Anon -- al-anon.org

Most of these groups follow the 12-Step program used in Alcoholics Anonymous
(AA) www.aa.org.

SMART Recovery www.smartrecovery.org and LifeRing lifering.org are programs
that do not use the 12-step approach. You can find other support groups on the
Internet.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Substance use may lead to a fatal overdose. Some people start taking the
substances again (relapse) after they have stopped.

Complications of substance use include:

    * Depression
    * Cancer, for example, mouth and stomach cancer are linked to alcohol abuse and dependence
    * Infection with HIV, or hepatitis B or C through shared needles
    * Loss of job
    * Problems with memory and concentration, for example, hallucinogen use, including marijuana (THC)
    * Problems with the law
    * Relationship breakup
    * Unsafe sexual practices, which may result in unwanted pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases, HIV, or viral hepatitis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or a family
member is using a substance and wants to stop. Also call if you have been cut
off from your drug supply and are at risk of withdrawal. Most employers offer
referral services for their employees with substance use problems.

## Prevention

Drug education programs can be helpful. Parents can have a strong influence on
their children by teaching them about the harm of using substances.

## Alternative Names

Substance abuse; Chemical use; Chemical abuse; Drug addiction; Addiction -
drug; Dependence on drugs; Illicit drug use; Narcotic use; Hallucinogen use

## Images

    * ![Depression and men](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19298t.jpg)Depression and men

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Substance-related and addictive disorders.
In: American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:481-590.

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 50.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Drugs, brains, and behavior: the
science of addiction. www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugs-brains-behavior-
science-addiction/preface. Updated July 2014. Accessed April 25, 2018.

Stager MM. Substance abuse. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 114.

Weiss RD. Drugs of abuse. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team. Editorial update 07/03/2018.

![Drug Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugAbuse2_thumb.jpg)Drug Use and
Addiction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

