Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003364.htm    
                                Description: A urine drug screen isÂ used to detect illegal and some prescription drugs in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine drug screen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003364.htm

# Urine drug screen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urine drug screen isÂ used to detect illegal and some prescription drugs in
the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

Before the test, you may be asked to remove all your clothes and wear a
hospital gown. You will then be placed in a room where you have no access to
your personal items or water. This is so you cannot dilute the sample, or use
someone else's urine for the test.

This test involves collecting a "clean-catch" (midstream) urine sample:

    * Wash your hands with soap and water. Dry your hands with a clean towel.
    * Men and boys should wipe the head of the penis with a moist cloth or disposable towelette. Before cleaning, gently pull back (retract) the foreskin, if you have one.
    * Women and girls need to wash the area between the lips of the vagina with soapy water and rinse well. Or, if instructed, use a disposable towelette to wipe the genital area.
    * As you start to urinate, allow a small amount to fall into the toilet bowl. This clears the urethra of contaminants.
    * Then, in the container you are given, catch about 1 to 2 ounces (30 to 60 milliliters) of urine. Remove the container from the urine stream.
    * Give the container to the health care provider or assistant.
    * Wash your hands again with soap and water. 

The sample is then taken to the lab for evaluation.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed to detect the presence of illegal and some prescription
drugs in your urine. Their presence may indicate that you recently used these
drugs. Some drugs may remain in your system for several weeks, soÂ the drug
test needs to be interpreted carefully.

## Normal Results

No drugs in the urine, unless you are taking medicines prescribed by your
provider.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the test result is positive, another test called gas-chromatography mass
spectrometry (GC-MS) may be done to confirm the results. The GC-MS will help
tell the difference between a false positive and a true positive.

In some cases, a test will indicate a false positive. This can result from
interfering factors such as some foods, prescription medicines, and other
drugs.Â Your provider will be aware of this possibility.

## Alternative Names

Drug screen - urine

## Images

    * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample

## References

Little M. Toxicology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 29.

Minns AB, Clark RF. Substance abuse. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 140.

Pincus MR, Bluth MH, Abraham NZ. Toxicology and therapeutic drug monitoring.
In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management
by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Drug Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugAbuse2_thumb.jpg)Drug Use and
Addiction _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

