Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000016.htm    
                                Description: Drug use is the misuse or overuse of any medicine or drug, including alcohol. This article discusses first aid for drug overdose and withdrawal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug use first aid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000016.htm

# Drug use first aid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug use is the misuse or overuse of any medicine or drug, including alcohol.
This article discusses first aid for drug overdose and withdrawal.

## Considerations

Many street drugs don't have treatment benefits. Any use of these drugs is a
form of drug abuse.

Medicines that are used to treat a health problem can be abused, either
accidentally or intentionally. This occurs when people take more than the
normal dose. Abuse can also occur if the medicine is taken on purpose with
alcohol or other drugs.

Drug interactions may also lead to side effects. So, it is important to let
your health care provider know about all the drugs you are taking. This
includes vitamins and other medicines you bought without a prescription.

Many drugs are addictive. Sometimes, the addiction is gradual. And some drugs
(such as cocaine) can cause addiction after only a few doses. Addiction means
that a person has a strong urge to use the substance and canât stop, even if
they want to.

Someone who has become addicted to a drug usually will have withdrawal
symptoms when the drug is suddenly stopped. Treatment can help prevent or
lessen withdrawal symptoms.

A drug dose that is large enough to cause harm to the body (toxic) is called
an overdose. This may occur suddenly, when a large amount of the drug is taken
at one time. It may also occur gradually as a drug builds up in the body over
a longer period. Prompt medical attention may save the life of someone who has
an overdose.

## Causes

An overdose of narcotics can cause sleepiness, slowed breathing, and even
unconsciousness.

Uppers (stimulants) produce excitement, increased heart rate, and rapid
breathing. Downers (depressants) do just the opposite.

Mind-altering drugs are called hallucinogens. They include LSD, PCP (angel
dust), and other street drugs. Using such drugs may cause paranoia,
hallucinations, aggressive behavior, or extreme social withdrawal.

Cannabis drugs such as marijuana may cause relaxation, impaired motor skills,
and increased appetite.

When prescription drugs are taken in higher than normal amounts, serious side
effects may occur.

## Symptoms

Drug overdose symptoms vary widely, depending on the specific drug used, but
may include:

    * Abnormal pupil size or pupils that don't change size when light is shined into them
    * Agitation
    * Seizures, tremors
    * Delusional or paranoid behavior,Â hallucinations
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Drowsiness, coma
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Staggering or unsteady gait (ataxia)
    * Sweating or extremely dry, hot skin, blisters, rash
    * Violent or aggressive behavior
    * Death

Drug withdrawal symptoms also vary widely, depending on the specific drug
used, but may include:

    * Abdominal cramping
    * Agitation, restlessness
    * Cold sweat
    * Delusions, hallucinations
    * Depression
    * Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea
    * Seizures (convulsions, shaking)
    * Death

## First Aid

1\. Check the person's airway, breathing, and pulse. If needed, begin CPR. If
unconscious but breathing, carefully place the person in the recovery position
by log rolling the person toward you onto their left side. Bend the top leg so
both hip and knee are at right angles. Gently tilt their head back to keep the
airway open. If the person is conscious, loosen the clothing and keep the
person warm, and provide reassurance. Try to keep the person calm. If you
suspect an overdose, try to prevent the person from taking more drugs. Call
for medical help right away.

2\. Treat the person for signs of shock. Signs includeÂ weakness, bluish lips
and fingernails, clammy skin, paleness, and decreasing alertness.

3\. If the person is having seizures, give first aid for seizures.

4\. Keep monitoring the person's vital signs (pulse, rate of breathing, blood
pressure, if possible) until emergency medical help arrives.

5\. If possible, try to determine which drug(s) were taken, how much and when.
Save any pill bottles or other drug containers. Give this information to
emergency personnel.

## DO NOT

Things you shouldn't do when tending to someone who has overdosed:

    * DO NOT put your own safety in danger. Some drugs can cause violent and unpredictable behavior. Call for medical help.
    * DO NOT try to reason with someone who is on drugs. Do not expect them to behave reasonably.
    * DO NOT offer your opinions when giving help. You don't need to know why drugs were taken in order to give effective first aid.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Drug emergencies are not always easy to identify. If you think someone has
overdosed, or if you think someone is having withdrawal, give first aid and
seek medical help.

Try to find out what drug the person has taken. If possible, collect all drug
containers and any remaining drug samples or the person's vomit and take them
to the hospital.

If you or someone you are with has overdosed, call your local emergency number
(such as 911), or your local poison center, which can be reached directly by
calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from
anywhere in the United States.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

At the hospital, the provider will perform a history and physical examination.
Tests and procedures will be done as necessary.

These may include:

    * Activated charcoal and laxatives to help remove swallowed drugs from the body (sometimes given through a tube placed through the mouth into the stomach)
    * Airway and breathing support, including a face mask, tube through the mouth into the trachea, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * CT scan of the head, neck, and other areas
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (fluids through a vein)
    * Medicines to reverse the effects of the drugs
    * Mental health and social work evaluation and assistance

In serious cases, the person may need to be admitted to the hospital for
further treatment.

Outcome depends on many things, including:

    * The type and amount of drugs
    * Where the drugs entered the body, such as through the mouth, nose, or by injection (intravenous or skin popping)
    * Whether the person has other health problems

## Prevention

Many resources are available for treating substance use. Ask a provider about
local resources.

## Alternative Names

Overdose from drugs; Drug abuse first aid

## References

Iwanicki JL. Hallucinogens. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 150.

Minns AB, Clark RF. Substance abuse. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 140.

Weiss RD. Drugs of abuse. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 4/4/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Drug Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugAbuse2_thumb.jpg)Drug Use and
Addiction _Read more_

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

