Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000951.htm    
                                Description: Barbiturates are drugs that cause relaxation and sleepiness. A barbiturate overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Barbiturate intoxication and overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000951.htm

# Barbiturate intoxication and overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Barbiturates are drugs that cause relaxation and sleepiness. A barbiturate
overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount
of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose. An overdose is life
threatening.

At fairly low doses, barbiturates may make you seem drunk or intoxicated.

Barbiturates are addictive. People who use them become physically dependent on
them. Stopping them (withdrawal) can be life-threatening. Tolerance to the
mood-altering effects of barbiturates develops rapidly with repeated use. But,
tolerance to the lethal effects develops more slowly, and the risk of severe
poisoning increases with continued use.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Causes

Barbiturate use is a major addiction problem for many people. Most people who
take these medicines for seizure disorders or pain syndromes do not abuse
them, but those who do, usually start by using medicine that was prescribed
for them or other family members.

Most overdoses of this type of medicine involve a mixture of drugs, usually
alcohol and barbiturates, or barbiturates and opiates such as heroin,
oxycodone, or fentanyl.

Some users take a combination of all these drugs. Those who use such
combinations tend to be:

    * New users who do not know these combinations can lead to coma or death
    * Experienced users who use them on purpose to alter their consciousness 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of barbiturate intoxication and overdose include:

    * Altered level of consciousness
    * Difficulty in thinking
    * Drowsiness or coma
    * Faulty judgment
    * Lack of coordination
    * Shallow breathing
    * Slow, slurred speech
    * Sluggishness
    * Staggering 

Excessive and long-term use of barbiturates, such as phenobarbital, may
produce the following chronic symptoms:

    * Changes in alertness
    * Decreased functioning
    * Irritability
    * Memory loss 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Tests that may be done
include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram)

## Treatment

At the hospital, emergency treatment may include:

    * Activated charcoal by mouth or a tube through the nose into the stomach
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms 

A medicine called naloxone (Narcan) may be given if an opiate was part of the
mix. This medicine often rapidly restores consciousness and breathing, but its
action is short-lived, and may need to be given repeatedly.

There is no direct antidote for barbiturates. An antidote is a medicine that
reverses the effects of another medicine or drug.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

About 1 in 10 people who overdose on barbiturates or a mixture that contains
barbiturates will die. They usually die from heart and lung problems.

## Possible Complications

Complications of an overdose include:

    * Coma
    * Death
    * Head injury and concussion from falls when intoxicated
    * Miscarriage in pregnant women or damage to the developing baby in the womb
    * Neck and spinal injury and paralysis from falls when intoxicated
    * Pneumonia from depressed gag reflex and aspiration (fluid or food down the bronchial tubes into the lungs)
    * Severe muscle damage from lying on a hard surface while unconscious, which may lead to permanent kidney injury 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number, such as 911, if someone has taken
barbiturates and seems extremely tired or has breathing problems.

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison control. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## Alternative Names

Intoxication - barbiturates

## References

Aronson JK. Barbiturates. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:819-826.

Gussow L, Carlson A. Sedative hypnotics. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 159.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Drug Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugAbuse2_thumb.jpg)Drug Use and
Addiction _Read more_

![Prescription Drug
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrescriptionDrugAbuse_thumb.jpg)Prescription
Drug Misuse _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

