Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000223.htm    
                                Description: Stomach cancer is cancer that starts in the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stomach cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000223.htm

# Stomach cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stomach cancer is cancer that starts in the stomach.

## Causes

Several types of cancer can occur in the stomach. The most common type is
called adenocarcinoma. It starts from one of the cell types found in the
lining of the stomach.

Adenocarcinoma is a common cancer of the digestive tract. It is not very
common in the United States. It is diagnosed much more often in people in
eastern Asia, parts of South America, and eastern and central Europe. It
occurs most often in men over age 40.

The number of people in the United States who develop this cancer has
decreased over the years. Experts think this decrease may be in part because
people are eating less salted, cured, and smoked foods.

You are more likely to be diagnosed with gastric cancer if you:

    * Have a diet low in fruits and vegetables
    * Have a family history of gastric cancer
    * Have an infection of the stomach by a bacteria called _Helicobacter pylori_ ( _H pylori_)
    * Had a polyp (abnormal growth) larger than 2 centimeters in your stomach
    * Have inflammation and swelling of the stomach for a long time (chronic atrophic gastritis)
    * Have pernicious anemiaÂ (low number of red blood cells from intestines not properly absorbing vitamin B12)
    * Smoke 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of stomach cancer may include any of the following:

    * Abdominal fullness or pain, which may occur after a small meal
    * Dark stools
    * Difficulty swallowing, which becomes worse over time
    * Excessive belching
    * General decline in health
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting blood
    * Weakness or fatigue
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is often delayed because symptoms may not occur in the early stages
of the disease. And many of the symptoms do not specifically point to stomach
cancer. So, people often self-treat symptoms that gastric cancer has in common
with other, less serious, disorders (bloating, gas, heartburn, and fullness).

Tests that can help diagnose gastric cancer include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) to check for anemia.
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with biopsy to examine the stomach tissue. EGD involves putting a tiny camera down the esophagus (food tube) to look at the inside of the stomach.
    * Stool test to check for blood in the stools. 

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the stomach (gastrectomy) is the standard treatment that can
cure adenocarcinoma of the stomach. Radiation therapy and chemotherapy may
help. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy after surgery may improve the chance
of a cure.

For people who cannot have surgery, chemotherapy or radiation may improve
symptoms and may prolong survival, but may not cure the cancer. For some
people, a surgical bypass procedure may relieve symptoms.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook varies based on how much the cancer has spread by the time of
diagnosis. Tumors in the lower stomach are cured more often than those in the
higher stomach. Chance of a cure also depends on how far the tumor has invaded
the stomach wall and whether lymph nodes are involved.

When the tumor has spread outside the stomach, a cure is less likely. When a
cure is not possible, the goal of treatment is to improve symptoms and prolong
life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if symptoms of gastric cancer develop.

## Prevention

Screening programs are successful in detecting disease in the early stages in
parts of the world where the risk of stomach cancer is much higher than in the
United States. The value of screening in the United States and other countries
with much lower rates of stomach cancer is not clear.

The following may help reduce your risk of stomach cancer:

    * DO NOT smoke.
    * Keep a healthy diet rich in fruits and vegetables.
    * Take medicines to treat reflux disease (heartburn), if you have it.
    * Take antibiotics if you are diagnosed with _H pylori_ infection. 

## Alternative Names

Cancer - stomach; Gastric cancer; Gastric carcinoma; Adenocarcinoma of the
stomach

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Stomach cancer, X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1202t.jpg)Stomach cancer, x-ray
    * ![Stomach](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19223t.jpg)Stomach
    * ![Stomach anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7100t.jpg)Gastrectomy - series

## References

Abrams JA, Quante M. Adenocarcinoma of the stomach and other gastric tumors.
In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 54.

Gunderson LL, Donohue JH, Alberts SR, Ashman JB, Jaroszewski DE. Cancer of the
stomach and gastroesophageal junction. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 75.

National Cancer Institute website. Gastric cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/stomach/hp/stomach-treatment-pdq.
Updated August 17, 2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stomach
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachCancer_thumb.jpg)Stomach Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

