Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000873.htm    
                                Description: Parents can have a big influence on whether their kids smoke. Your attitudes and opinions about smoking set an example. Talk openly about the fact that you do not approve of your child smoking. You can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Talking to your child about smoking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000873.htm

# Talking to your child about smoking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Parents can have a big influence on whether their kids smoke. Your attitudes
and opinions about smoking set an example. Talk openly about the fact that you
do not approve of your child smoking. You can also help them think about how
to say no if someone offers them a cigarette.

## Why Children Start Smoking

Middle school marks the beginning of many social, physical, and emotional
changes. Kids become more prone to bad decisions based on what their friends
say and do.

Most adult smokers had their first cigarette by the age of 11 and were hooked
by the time they turned 14.

There are laws against marketing cigarettes to kids. Unfortunately, this does
not stop kids from seeing images in ads and movies that make smokers look
cool. Coupons, free samples, and promotions on cigarette companies' websites
make cigarettes easier for kids to get.

## How to Talk with Your Child About Smoking

**Start early.** It is a good idea to start talking with your children about
the dangers of cigarettes when they are 5 or 6 years old. Keep the
conversation going as your children get older.

Make it a two-way talk. Give your children a chance to speak openly,
particularly as they get older. Ask them if they know people who smoke and how
they feel about it.

**Stay connected.** Studies show that kids who feel close to their parents are
less likely to start smoking than kids who are not close to their parents.

**Be clear about your rules and expectations.** Kids who know their parents
are paying attention and disapprove of smoking are less likely to start.

**Talk about the risks of tobacco.** Kids might think they do not have to
worry about things like cancer and heart disease until they get older. Let
your children know that smoking can affect their health right away. It can
also affect other areas of their life. Explain these risks:

    * Breathing problems. By senior year, kids who smoke are more likely to become short of breath, have coughing fits, wheeze, and get sick more often than kids who never smoked. Smoking also makes kids more prone to asthma.
    * Addiction. Explain that cigarettes are made to be as addicting as possible. Tell kids that they will have a very hard time quitting if they start to smoke.
    * Money. Cigarettes are expensive. Have your child figure out how much it would cost to buy a pack a day for 6 months, and what they could buy with that money instead.
    * Smell. Long after a cigarette is gone, the smell lingers on the smoker's breath, hair, and clothes. Because they are used to the smell of cigarettes, smokers can stink of smoke and not even know it. 

**Know your kids' friends.** As kids get older, their friends influence their
choices more. The risk your children will smoke goes up if their friends
smoke.

## How to Prevent Future Smokers

Talk about how the tobacco industry targets kids. Cigarette companies spend
billions of dollars each year to try to get people to smoke. Ask your children
if they want to support companies that make products that make people sick.

Help your child practice saying no. If a friend offers your children a
cigarette, what will they say? Suggest responses like:

    * "I do not want to smell like an ashtray."
    * "I do not want tobacco companies making money off of me."
    * "I do not want to be out of breath at soccer practice." 

Get your child involved in non-smoking activities. Playing sports, taking
dance, or being involved in school or church groups can help reduce the risk
that your child will start smoking.

Be savvy about "smoke-free" alternatives. Some kids have turned to smokeless
tobacco or electronic cigarettes. They may think these are ways to dodge the
dangers of cigarettes and still get a nicotine fix. Let your kids know this is
not true.

    * Smokeless tobacco ("chew") is addictive and has almost 30 cancer-causing chemicals. Kids who chew tobacco are at risk of cancer.
    * Electronic cigarettes, also known as vaping and electronic hookahs, are new to the market. They have come in flavors like bubble gum and pina colada that appeal to kids.
    * Many e-cigarettes contain nicotine. Experts worry that e-cigarettes will increase the number of kids who get addicted and smoke cigarettes as adults. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your child smokes and needs help quitting, talk to your health care
provider.

## Alternative Names

Nicotine - talking to your child; Tobacco - talking to your children;
Cigarettes - talking to your child

## References

Mahabee-Gittens EM, Xiao Y, Gordon JS, Khoury JC. The dynamic role of parental
influences in preventing adolescent smoking initiation. _Addict Behav_.
2013;38(4):1905-1911. PMID: 23380496 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23380496.

Nelson N. More questions than answers surrounding e-cigarette debate. _J Natl
Cancer Inst_. 2014;106(4):dju101. PMID: 24685930
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24685930.

Smokefree.gov website. What we know about electronic cigarettes
(e-cigarettes). smokefree.gov/quit-smoking/ecigs-menthol-dip/ecigs. Accessed
August 13, 2018.  

Soneji S, Ambrose BK, Lee W, Sargent J, Tanski S. Direct-to-consumer tobacco
marketing and its association with tobacco use among adolescents and young
adults. _J Adolesc Health_. 2014;55(2):209-215. PMID: 24661738
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24661738.

Stager MM. Substance abuse. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 114.

US Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health. Preventing tobacco use among youth
and young adults:Â a report of the surgeon general. 2012.
www.surgeongeneral.gov/library/reports/preventing-youth-tobacco-use/full-
report.pdf.Â Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Smoking and Youth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

