Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000878.htm    
                                Description: Ringworm of the scalpÂ is a fungal infection that affects the scalp. It is also called tinea capitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ringworm of the scalp

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000878.htm

# Ringworm of the scalp

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ringworm of the scalpÂ is a fungal infection that affects the scalp. It is
also called tinea capitis.

Related ringworm infections may be found:

    * In a man's beard
    * In the groin (jock itch)
    * Between the toes (athlete's foot)
    * Other places on the skin

## Causes

Fungi are germs that can live on the dead tissue of the hair, nails, and outer
skin layers. Ringworm of the scalp is caused by mold-like fungi called
dermatophytes.

The fungi grow well in warm, moist areas. A tinea infection is more likely if
you:

    * Have minor skin or scalp injuries
    * Do not bathe or wash your hair often
    * Have wet skin for a long time (such as from sweating) 

Ringworm can spread easily. It most often affects children and goes away at
puberty. However, it can occur at any age.

You can catch ringworm if you come into direct contact with an area of
ringworm on someone else's body. You can also get it if you touch items such
as combs, hats, or clothing that have been used by someone with ringworm. The
infection can also be spread by pets, particularly cats.

## Symptoms

Ringworm may involve part or all of the scalp. The affected areas:

    * Are bald with small black dots, due to hair that has broken off
    * Have round, scaly areas of skin that are red or swollen (inflamed)
    * Have pus-filled sores called kerions
    * May be very itchy 

You may have a low-grade fever of around 100Â°F to 101Â°F (37.8Â°C to 38.3Â°C)
or swollen lymph nodes in the neck.

Ringworm may cause permanent hair loss and lasting scars.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your scalp for signs of ringworm.

You may also need the following tests:

    * Examination of a skin scraping from the rash under a microscope using a special test
    * Skin culture for fungusÂ 
    * Skin biopsyÂ (rarely needed)

## Treatment

Your provider will prescribe medicine you take by mouth to treat ringworm on
the scalp. You will need to take the medicine for 4 to 8 weeks.

Steps you can do at home include:

    * Keeping your scalp clean.
    * Washing with a medicated shampoo, such as one that contains ketoconazole or selenium sulfide. Shampooing may slow or stop the spread of infection, but it does not get rid of ringworm.

Other family members and pets should be examined and treated, if necessary.

    * Other children in the home may want to use the shampoo 2 to 3 times a week for about 6 weeks.
    * Adults only need to wash with the shampoo if they have signs of tinea capitis or ringworm.

Once the shampoo has been started:

    * Wash towels in hot, soapy water and dry them using the hottest heat as recommended on the care label. This should be done each time the towels are used by someone who is infected.
    * Soak combs and brushes for 1 hour a day in a mixture ofÂ 1 part bleach to 10 parts water. Do this for 3 days in a row.

No one in the home should share combs, hairbrushes, hats, towels, pillowcases,
or helmets with other people.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

It may be hard to get rid of ringworm. Also, the problem may come back after
it is treated. In many cases it gets better on its own after puberty.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of ringworm of the scalp and home care
is not enough to get rid of the condition.

## Alternative Names

Fungal infection - scalp; Tinea of the scalp; Tinea - capitis

## Images

    * ![Ringworm of the scalp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19685t.jpg)Ringworm of the scalp
    * ![Wood's lamp test - of the scalp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2096t.jpg)Wood's lamp test - of the scalp
    * ![Ringworm, tinea capitis - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2351t.jpg)Ringworm, tinea capitis - close-up

## References

Habif TP. Superficial fungal infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Hay RJ. Dermatophytosis (ringworm) and other superficial mycoses. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 268.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dandruff](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dandruff_thumb.jpg)Dandruff, Cradle
Cap, and Other Scalp Conditions _Read more_

![Tinea
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TineaInfections2_thumb.jpg)Tinea
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

