Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007582.htm    
                                Description: Cradle cap is seborrheic dermatitis that affects the scalp of infants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cradle cap

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007582.htm

# Cradle cap

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cradle cap is seborrheic dermatitis that affects the scalp of infants.

## Causes

Seborrheic dermatitis is a common, inflammatory skin condition that causes
flaky, white to yellowish scales to form on oily areas such as the scalp.

The exact cause of cradle cap is not known. Doctors think the condition is due
to oil glands in the baby's scalp producing too much oil.

Cradle cap is not spread from person to person (contagious). It is also not
caused by poor hygiene. It is not an allergy, and it is not dangerous.

Cradle cap often lasts a few months. In some children, the condition can last
until age 2 or 3.

## Symptoms

Parents may notice the following:

    * Thick, crusty, yellow or brown scales on your child's scalp
    * Scales may also be found on the eyelids, ear, around the nose
    * Older infant scratching affected areas, which may lead to infection (redness, bleeding, or crusting)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can often diagnose cradle cap by looking at your
baby's scalp.

## Treatment

Antibiotics will be prescribed if your baby's scalp has an infection.

Depending on how severe the condition is, other medicines may be prescribed.
These may include medicated creams or shampoos.

Most cases of cradle cap can be managed at home. Here are some tips:

    * Massage your baby's scalp gently with your fingers or a soft brush to loosen the scales and improve scalp circulation.
    * Give your child daily, gentle shampoos with a mild shampoo as long as there are scales. After scales have disappeared, shampoos can be reduced to twice weekly. Be sure to rinse off all shampoo.
    * Brush your child's hair with a clean, soft brush after each shampoo and several times during the day. Wash the brush with soap and water each day to remove any scales and scalp oil.
    * If scales do not easily loosen and wash off, apply mineral oil to the baby's scalp and wrap warm, wet cloths around the head for up to an hour before shampooing. Then, shampoo. Remember that your baby loses heat through the scalp. If you use warm, wet cloths with the mineral oil, check often to be sure that the cloths have not become cold. Cold, wet cloths can reduce your baby's temperature. 

If the scales continue to be a problem or your child seems uncomfortable or
scratches the scalp all the time, call your child's provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

    * Scales on your baby's scalp or other skin symptoms do not go away or get worse after home care
    * Patches drain fluid or pus, form crusts, or become very red or painful
    * Your baby develops a fever (may be due to infection getting worse)

## Alternative Names

Seborrheic dermatitis - infant; Infantile seborrheic dermatitis

## References

Bender NR, Chiu YE. Eczematous disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 674.

Tom WL, Eichenfield LF. Eczematous disorders. In: Eichenfield LF, Frieden IJ,
Mathes EF, Zaenglein AL, eds. _Neonatal and Infant Dermatology_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dandruff](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dandruff_thumb.jpg)Dandruff, Cradle
Cap, and Other Scalp Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

