Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000963.htm    
                                Description: Seborrheic dermatitis is a common inflammatory skin condition. It causes flaky, white to yellowish scales to form on oily areas such as the scalp, face, or inside the ear. It can occur with or without    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Seborrheic dermatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000963.htm

# Seborrheic dermatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Seborrheic dermatitis is a common inflammatory skin condition. It causes
flaky, white to yellowish scales to form on oily areas such as the scalp,
face, or inside the ear. It can occur with or without reddened skin.

Cradle cap is the term used when seborrheic dermatitis affects the scalp of
infants.

## Causes

The exact cause of seborrheic dermatitis is unknown. It may be due to a
combination of factors:

    * Oil gland activity
    * Yeasts, called malassezia, which live on the skin, mainly in areas with more oil glands
    * Changes in skin barrier function
    * Your genes 

Risk factors include:

    * Stress or fatigue
    * Weather extremes
    * Oily skin, or skin problems such as acne
    * Heavy alcohol use, or using lotions that contain alcohol
    * Obesity
    * Nervous system disorders, including Parkinson disease, traumatic brain injury, or stroke
    * Having HIV/AIDS

## Symptoms

Seborrheic dermatitis can occur on different body areas. It often forms where
the skin is oily or greasy. Common areas include the scalp, eyebrows, eyelids,
creases of the nose, lips, behind the ears, in the outer ear, and middle of
the chest.

In general, symptoms of seborrheic dermatitis include:

    * Skin lesions with scales
    * Plaques over large area
    * Greasy, oily areas of skin
    * Skin scales -- white and flaking, or yellowish, oily, and sticky dandruff
    * Itching -- may become more itchy if infected
    * Mild redness

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is based on appearance and location of the skin lesions. Further
tests, such as skin biopsy, are rarely needed.

## Treatment

Flaking and dryness can be treated with over-the-counter dandruff or medicated
shampoos. You can buy these at the drugstore without a prescription. Look for
a product that says on the label it treats seborrheic dermatitis or dandruff.
Such products contain ingredients such as salicylic acid, coal tar, zinc,
resorcinol, ketoconazole, or selenium sulfide. Use the shampoo according to
label instructions.

For severe cases, your health care provider will likely prescribe a shampoo,
cream, ointment, or lotion containing either a stronger dose of the above
medicines, or contain any of the following medicines:

    * Ciclopirox
    * Sodium sulfacetamide
    * A corticosteroid
    * Tacrolimus or pimecrolimus (medicines that suppress the immune system)

Phototherapy, a medical procedure in which your skin is carefully exposed to
ultraviolet light, may be needed.

Sunlight may improve seborrheic dermatitis. In some people, the condition gets
better in the summer, especially after outdoor activities.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Seborrheic dermatitis is a chronic (life-long) condition thatÂ comes and goes,
and itÂ can be controlled with treatment.

Severity of seborrheic dermatitis can be lessened by controlling risk factors
and paying careful attention to skin care.

## Possible Complications

The condition may result in:

    * Psychological distress, low self-esteem, embarrassment
    * Secondary bacterial or fungal infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider ifÂ your symptoms don't respond to
self-care or over-the-counter treatments.

Also call if patches of seborrheic dermatitis drain fluid or pus, form crusts,
or become very red or painful.

## Alternative Names

Dandruff; Seborrheic eczema; Cradle cap

## Images

    * ![Dermatitis seborrheic - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2398t.jpg)Dermatitis seborrheic - close-up
    * ![Dermatitis - seborrheic on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2399t.jpg)Dermatitis - seborrheic on the face

## References

Borda LJ, Wikramanayake TC. Seborrheic dermatitis and dandruff: a
comprehensive review. _J Clin Investig Dermatol_.
2015;3(2):10.13188/2373-1044.1000019. PMCID: 4852869
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4852869.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Seborrheic
dermatitis, psoriasis, recalcitrant palmoplantar eruptions, pustular
dermatitis, and erythroderma. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA,
Neuhaus IM, eds.Â _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 10.

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Eczematous eruptions in childhood. In: Paller AS,
Mancini AJ, eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric Dermatology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dandruff](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dandruff_thumb.jpg)Dandruff, Cradle
Cap, and Other Scalp Conditions _Read more_

![Eczema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Eczema_thumb.jpg)Eczema _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

