Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001416.htm    
                                Description: An epidural abscess is a collection of pus (infected material) and germs between the outer covering of the brain and spinal cord and the bones of the skull or spine. The abscess causes swelling in the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epidural abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001416.htm

# Epidural abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An epidural abscess is a collection of pus (infected material) and germs
between the outer covering of the brain and spinal cord and the bones of the
skull or spine. The abscess causes swelling in the area.

## Causes

Epidural abscess is a rare disorder caused by infection in the area between
the bones of the skull, or spine, and the membranes covering the brain and
spinal cord (meninges). This infection is called an intracranial epidural
abscess if it is inside the skull area. It is called a spinal epidural abscess
if it is found in the spine area. Most are located in the spine.

The spinal infection is usually caused by bacteria but may be caused by a
fungus. It can be due to other infections in the body (especially a urinary
tract infection), or germs that spread through the blood. In some people,
though, no other source of infection is found.

An abscess inside the skull is called an intracranial epidural abscess. The
cause may be any of the following:

    * Chronic ear infections
    * Chronic sinusitis
    * Head injury
    * Mastoiditis
    * Recent neurosurgery 

An abscess of the spine is called a spinal epidural abscess. It may be seen in
people with any of the following:

    * Had back surgery or another invasive procedure involving the spine
    * Bloodstream infections
    * Boils, especially on the back or scalp
    * Bone infections of the spine (vertebral osteomyelitis) 

People who inject drugs are also at increased risk.

## Symptoms

Spinal epidural abscess may cause these symptoms:

    * Bowel or bladder incontinence
    * Difficulty urinating (urinary retention)
    * Fever and back pain 

Intracranial epidural abscess may cause these symptoms:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Lethargy
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pain at the site of recent surgery that gets worse (especially if fever is present) 

Nervous system symptoms depend on the location of the abscess and may include:

    * Decreased ability to move any part of the body
    * Loss of sensation in any area of the body, or abnormal changes in sensation
    * Weakness 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam to look for a loss of
functions, such as movement or sensation.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culturesÂ to check for bacteria in the blood
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of head or spine
    * Draining of abscess and examination of the material
    * MRI of head or spine 
    * Urine analysis and culture  

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection and reduce the risk for
permanent damage. Treatment usually includes antibiotics and surgery. In some
cases, antibiotics alone are used.

Antibiotics are usually given through a vein (IV) for at least 4 to 6 weeks.
Some people need to take them for a longer time, depending on the type of
bacteria and how severe the disease is.

Surgery may be needed to drain or remove the abscess. Surgery is also often
needed to reduce pressure on the spinal cord or brain, if there is weakness or
damage to the nerves.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early diagnosis and treatment greatly improves the chance of a good outcome.
Once weakness, paralysis, or sensation changes occur, the chance of recovering
lost function is greatly reduced. Permanent nervous system damage or death may
occur.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Brain abscess
    * Brain damage
    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Chronic back pain
    * MeningitisÂ (infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord)
    * Nerve damage
    * Return of infection
    * Spinal cord abscess

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

An epidural abscess is a medical emergency. Go to the emergency room or call
the local emergency number (such as 911) if you have symptoms of spinal cord
abscess.

## Prevention

Treatment of certain infections, such as ear infections, sinusitis, and
bloodstream infections, may decrease the risk for an epidural abscess. Early
diagnosis and treatment are important to prevent complications.

## Alternative Names

Abscess - epidural; Spinal abscess

## References

Kusuma S, Klineberg EO. Spinal infections: diagnosis and treatment of
discitis, osteomyelitis, and epidural abscess. In: Steinmetz MP, Benzel EC,
eds. _Benzel's Spine Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
122.

Tunkel AR. Subdural empyema, epidural abscess, and suppurative intracranial
thrombophlebitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 93.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

