Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001405.htm    
                                Description: Spinal cord abscess is the swelling and irritation (inflammation) and the collection of infected material (pus) and germs in or around the spinal cord.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal cord abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001405.htm

# Spinal cord abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spinal cord abscess is the swelling and irritation (inflammation) and the
collection of infected material (pus) and germs in or around the spinal cord.

## Causes

A spinal cord abscess is caused by an infection inside the spine. An abscess
of the spinal cord itself is very rare. A spinal abscess usually occurs as a
complication of an epidural abscess.

Pus forms as a collection of:

    * White blood cells
    * Fluid
    * Live and dead bacteria or other microorganisms
    * Destroyed tissue cells 

The pus is commonly covered by a lining or membrane that forms around the
edges. The pus collection causes pressure on the spinal cord.

The infection is usually due to bacteria. Often it is caused by a
staphylococcus infection that spreads through the spine. It may be caused by
tuberculosis in some areas of the world, but this is not as common today as it
was in the past. In rare cases, the infection may be due to a fungus.

The following increase your risk for a spinal cord abscess:

    * Back injuries or trauma, including minor ones
    * Boils on the skin, especially on the back or scalp
    * Complication of lumbar puncture or back surgery
    * Spread of any infection through the bloodstream from another part of the body (bacteremia)
    * Injecting drugs 

The infection often begins in the bone (osteomyelitis). The bone infection may
cause an epidural abscess to form. This abscess gets larger and presses on the
spinal cord. The infection can spread to the cord itself.

A spinal cord abscess is rare. When it does occur, it can be life threatening.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Fever and chills.
    * Loss of bladder or bowel control.
    * Loss of movement of an area of the body below the abscess.
    * Loss of sensation of an area of the body below the abscess.
    * Low backache, often mild, but slowly gets worse, with pain moving to the hip, leg, or feet. Or, pain may spread to the shoulder, arm, or hand.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and may find the
following:

    * Tenderness over the spine
    * Spinal cord compression
    * Paralysis of the lower body (paraplegia) or of the entire trunk, arms, and legs (quadriplegia)
    * Changes in sensation below the area where the spine is affected 

The amount of nerve loss depends on where the abscess is located on the spine
and how much it is compressing the spinal cord.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count
    * CT scan of the spine
    * Draining of abscess
    * Gram stain and culture of abscess material
    * MRI of the spine 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to relieve pressure on the spinal cord and cure the
infection.

Surgery may be done right away to relieve the pressure. It involves removing
part of the spine bone and draining the abscess. Sometimes it is not possible
to drain the abscess completely.

Antibiotics are used to treat the infection. They are usually given through a
vein (IV).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does after treatment varies. Some people recover completely.

An untreated spinal cord abscess can lead to spinal cord compression. It can
cause permanent, severe paralysis and nerve loss. It may be life threatening.

If the abscess is not drained completely, it may return or cause scarring in
the spinal cord.

## Possible Complications

The abscess can injure the spinal cord from direct pressure. Or, it can cut
off the blood supply to the spinal cord.

Complications may include:

    * Infection returns
    * Long-term (chronic) back pain
    * Loss of bladder/bowel control
    * Loss of sensation
    * Male impotence
    * Weakness, paralysis 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911), if
you have symptoms of spinal cord abscess.

## Prevention

Thorough treatment of boils, tuberculosis, and other infections decreases the
risk. Early diagnosis and treatment are important to prevent complications.

## Alternative Names

Abscess - spinal cord

## Images

    * ![Vertebrae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19470t.jpg)Vertebrae
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Camillo FX. Infections and tumors of the spine. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

Kusuma S, Klineberg EO. Spinal infections: diagnosis and treatment of
discitis, osteomyelitis, and epidural abscess. In: Steinmetz MP, Benzel EC,
eds. _Benzel's Spine Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
122.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

