Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001427.htm    
                                Description: Stuttering is a speech disorder in which sounds, syllables, or words are repeated or last longer than normal. These problems cause a break in the flow of speech (called disfluency).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stuttering

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001427.htm

# Stuttering

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stuttering is a speech disorder in which sounds, syllables, or words are
repeated or last longer than normal. These problems cause a break in the flow
of speech (called disfluency).

## Causes

About 5% of children (1 of every 20 children) ages 2Â to 5 will develop some
stuttering during their childhood. It may last for several weeks to several
years.

For a small number of children, stuttering does not go away and may get worse.
This is called developmental stuttering and it is the most common type of
stuttering.

Stuttering tends to run in families. Genes that cause stuttering have been
identified.

There is also evidence that stuttering is a result of brain injuries, such as
stroke or traumatic brain injuries.

In rare cases, stuttering is caused by emotional trauma (called psychogenic
stuttering).

Stuttering is more common in boys than girls. It also tends to persist into
adulthood more often in boys than in girls.

## Symptoms

Stuttering may start with repeating consonants (k, g, t). If stuttering
becomes worse, words and phrases are repeated.

Later, vocal spasms develop. There is a forced, almost explosive sound to
speech. The person may appear to be struggling to speak.

Stressful social situations and anxiety can make symptoms worse.

Symptoms of stuttering may include:

    * Feeling frustrated when trying to communicate
    * Pausing or hesitating when starting or during sentences, phrases, or words, often with the lips together
    * Putting in (interjecting) extra sounds or words ("We went to the...uh...store")
    * Repeating sounds, words, parts of words, or phrases ("I want...I want my doll," "I...I see you," or "Ca-ca-ca-can")
    * Tension in the voice
    * Very long sounds within words ("I am Booooobbbby Jones" or "Llllllllike")

Other symptoms that might be seen with stuttering include:

    * Eye blinking
    * Jerking of the head or other body parts
    * Jaw jerking

Children with mild stuttering are often unaware of their stuttering. In severe
cases, children may be more aware. Facial movements, anxiety, and increased
stuttering may occur when they are asked to speak.

Some people who stutter find that they do notÂ stutter when they read aloud or
sing.

## Exams and Tests

No testing is usually necessary. The diagnosis of stuttering may require
consultation with a speech pathologist.

## Treatment

There is no one best treatment for stuttering. Most early cases are short-term
and resolve on their own.

Speech therapy may be helpful if:

    * Stuttering has lasted more than 3 to 6 months, or the "blocked" speech lasts several seconds 
    * The child appears to be struggling when stuttering, or is embarrassed 
    * There is a family history of stuttering 

Speech therapy can help make the speech more fluent or smooth.

Parents are encouraged to:

    * Avoid expressing too much concern about the stuttering, which can actually make matters worse by making the child more self-conscious.
    * Avoid stressful social situations whenever possible.
    * Listen patiently to the child, make eye contact, don't interrupt, and show love and acceptance. Avoid finishing sentences for them.
    * Set aside time for talking.
    * Talk openly about stuttering when the child brings it up to you. Let them know you understand their frustration.
    * Talk with the speech therapist about when to gently correct the stuttering.

Taking medicine has not been shown to be helpful for stuttering.

It is not clear whether electronic devices help with stuttering.

Self-help groups are often helpful for both the child and family.

## Support Groups

The following organizations are good resources for information on stuttering
and its treatment:

    * American Institute for Stuttering: stutteringtreatment.org
    * FRIENDS: The National Association of Young People Who Stutter: www.friendswhostutter.org
    * The Stuttering Foundation: www.stutteringhelp.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most children who stutter, the phase passes and speech returns to normal
within 3 or 4 years. Stuttering that begins after a child is 8Â to 10 years
old is more likely to last into adulthood.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications of stuttering include social problems caused by the
fear of teasing, which may make a child avoid speaking entirely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Stuttering is interfering with your child's school work or emotional development.
    * The child seems anxious or embarrassed about speaking.
    * The symptoms last for more than 3 toÂ 6 months.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent stuttering.

## Alternative Names

Children and stuttering; Speech disfluency; Stammering

## References

Blitzer A, Sadoughi B, Guardiani E. Neurologic disorders of the larynx. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 58.

National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders. NIDCD fact
sheet: stuttering. www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/stuttering. Updated March 6, 2017.
Accessed March 1, 2018.

Simms MD. Language development and communication disorders. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 35.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stuttering](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stuttering_thumb.jpg)Stuttering
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

