Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000957.htm    
                                Description: Social anxiety disorder is a persistent and irrational fear of situations that may involve scrutiny or judgment by others, such as at parties and other social events.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Social anxiety disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000957.htm

# Social anxiety disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Social anxiety disorder is a persistent and irrational fear of situations that
may involve scrutiny or judgment by others, such as at parties and other
social events.

## Causes

People with social anxiety disorder fear and avoid situations in which they
may be judged by others. It may begin in the teens and may have to do with
overprotective parents or limited social opportunities. Men and women are
affected equally with this disorder.

People with social phobia are at high risk for alcohol or other drug use. This
is because they may come to rely on these substances to relax in social
situations.

## Symptoms

People with social anxiety become very anxious and self-conscious in everyday
social situations. They have an intense, persistent, and chronic fear of being
watched and judged by others, and of doing things that will embarrass them.
They can worry for days or weeks before a dreaded situation. This fear may
become so severe that it interferes with work, school, and other ordinary
activities, and can make it hard to make and keep friends.

Some of the most common fears of people with this disorder include:

    * Attending parties and other social occasions
    * Eating, drinking, and writing in public
    * Meeting new people
    * Speaking in public
    * Using public restrooms

Physical symptoms that often occur include:

    * Blushing
    * Difficulty talking
    * Nausea
    * Profuse sweating
    * Trembling 

Social anxiety disorder is different from shyness. Shy people are able to
participate in social functions. Social anxiety disorder affects the ability
to function in work and relationships.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look at your history of social anxiety and will
get a description of the behavior from you, your family, and friends.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to help you function effectively. The success of the
treatment usually depends on the severity of your fears.

Behavioral treatment is often tried first and may have long-lasting benefits:

    * Cognitive behavioral therapy helps you understand and change the thoughts that are causing your condition, as well as learn to recognize and replace panic-causing thoughts.
    * Systematic desensitization or exposure therapy may be used. You are asked to relax, then imagine the situations that cause the anxiety, working from the least fearful to the most fearful. Gradual exposure to the real-life situation has also been used with success to help people overcome their fears.
    * Social skills training may involve social contact in a group therapy situation to practice social skills. Role playing and modeling are techniques used to help you become more comfortable relating to others in a social situation. 

Certain medicines, usually used to treat depression, may be very helpful for
this disorder. They work by preventing your symptoms or making them less
severe. You must take these medicines every day. DO NOT stop taking them
without talking with your provider.

Medicines called sedatives (or hypnotics) may also be prescribed.

    * These medicines should only be taken under a doctor's direction.
    * Your doctor will prescribe a limited amount of these drugs. They should not to be used every day.
    * They may be used when symptoms become very severe or when you are about to be exposed to something that always brings on your symptoms.
    * If you are prescribed a sedative, do not drink alcohol while on this medicine. 

Lifestyle changes may help reduce how often the attacks occur.

    * Get regular exercise, enough sleep, and regularly scheduled meals.
    * Reduce or avoid the use of caffeine, some over-the-counter cold medicines, and other stimulants. 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of having social anxiety by joining a support group.
Sharing with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not
feel alone.

Support groups are usually not a good substitute for talk therapy or taking
medicine, but can be a helpful addition.

Resources for more information include:

    * Anxiety and Depression Association of America -- adaa.org
    * National Institute of Mental Health -- www.nimh.nih.gov/health/publications/social-anxiety-disorder-more-than-just-shyness/index.shtml

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is often good with treatment. Antidepressant medicines can also be
effective.

## Possible Complications

Alcohol or other drug use may occur with social anxiety disorder. Loneliness
and social isolation may occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if fear is affecting your work and relationships with
others.

## Alternative Names

Phobia - social; Anxiety disorder - social; Social phobia; SAD - social
anxiety disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Anxiety disorders. In: _American Psychiatric
Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed.
Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:189-234.

Calkins AW, Bui E, Taylor CT, Pollack MH, LeBeau RT, Simon NM. Anxiety
disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Lyness JM. Psychiatric disorders in medical practice. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 397.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Phobias](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Phobias_thumb.jpg)Phobias _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

