Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000956.htm    
                                Description: A phobia is an ongoing intense fear or anxiety of a certain object, animal, activity, or setting that poses little to no actual danger.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Phobia - simple/specific

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000956.htm

# Phobia - simple/specific

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A phobia is an ongoing intense fear or anxiety of a certain object, animal,
activity, or setting that poses little to no actual danger.

## Causes

Specific phobias are a type of anxiety disorder in which a person may feel
extremely anxious or has a panic attack when exposed to the object of fear.
Specific phobias are a common mental disorder.

Common phobias include the fear of:

    * Being in places where it is hard to escape, such as crowds, bridges, or of being outside alone
    * Blood, injections, and other medical procedures
    * Certain animals (for instance, dogs or snakes)
    * Enclosed spaces
    * Flying
    * High places
    * Insects or spiders
    * Lightning 

## Symptoms

Being exposed to the feared object or even thinking about being exposed to it
causes an anxiety reaction.

    * This fear or anxiety is much stronger than the real threat.
    * You may sweat excessively, have problems controlling your muscles or actions, or have a fast heart rate.

You avoid settings in which you may come into contact with the feared object
or animal. For example, you may avoid driving through tunnels, if tunnels are
your phobia. This type of avoidance can interfere with your job and social
life.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your history of phobia, and will get a
description of the behavior from you, your family, or friends.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to help you live your daily life without being
impaired by your fears.Â The success of the treatment usually depends on how
severe your phobia is.

Talk therapy is often tried first. This may involve any of the following:

    * Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) helps you change the thoughts that cause your fear.
    * Exposure-based treatment. This involves imagining parts of the phobia working from the least fearful to the most fearful. You may also be gradually exposed to your real-life fear to help you overcome it.
    * Phobia clinics and group therapy, which help people deal with common phobias such as a fear of flying. 

Certain medicines, usually used to treat depression, may be very helpful for
this disorder. They work by preventing your symptoms or making them less
severe. You must take these medicines every day. DO NOT stop taking them
without talking with your provider.

Medicines called sedatives (or hypnotics) may also be prescribed.

    * These medicines should only be taken under a doctor's direction.
    * Your doctor will prescribe a limited amount of these drugs. They should not to be used every day.
    * They may be used when symptoms become very severe or when you are about to be exposed to something that always brings on your symptoms. 

If you are prescribed a sedative, do not drink alcohol while on this medicine.
Other measures that can reduce the number of attacks include:

    * Getting regular exercise
    * Getting enough sleep
    * Reducing or avoiding the use of caffeine, some over-the-counter cold medicines, and other stimulants 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Phobias tend to be ongoing, but they can respond to treatment.

## Possible Complications

Some phobias may affect job performance or social functioning. Some anti-
anxiety medicines used to treat phobias may cause physical dependence.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if a phobia is interfering with
life activities.

## Alternative Names

Anxiety disorder - phobia

## Images

    * ![Fears and phobias](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9321t.jpg)Fears and phobias

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Anxiety disorders. In: American Psychiatric
Association, ed. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th
ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:189-234.

Calkins AW, Bui E, Taylor CT, Pollack MH, LeBeau RT, Simon NM. Anxiety
disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Phobias](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Phobias_thumb.jpg)Phobias _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

