Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000871.htm    
                                Description: Pityriasis rosea is a common type of skin rash seen in young adults.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pityriasis rosea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000871.htm

# Pityriasis rosea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pityriasis rosea is a common type of skin rash seen in young adults.

## Causes

Pityriasis rosea is believed to be caused by a virus. It occurs most often in
the fall and spring.

Although pityriasis rosea may occur in more than one person in a household at
a time, it is not thought to spread from one person to another. Females seem
to be more affected than males.

## Symptoms

Attacks most often last 4 to 8 weeks. Symptoms may disappear by 3 weeks or
last as long as 12 weeks.

The rash starts with a single large patch called a herald patch. After several
days, more skin rashes will appear on the chest, back, arms, and legs.

The skin rashes:

    * Are often pink or pale red
    * Are oval in shape
    * May be scaly
    * May follow lines in the skin or appear in a "Christmas tree" pattern
    * May itch 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Headache
    * Fatigue
    * Sore throat
    * Mild fever

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can often diagnose pityriasis rosea by the way the
rash looks.

In rare cases, the following tests are needed:

    * A blood test to be sure it is not a form of syphilis, which can cause a similar rash 
    * A skin biopsy to confirm the diagnosis 

## Treatment

If symptoms are mild, you may not need treatment.

Your provider may suggest gentle bathing, mild lubricants or creams, or mild
hydrocortisone creams to soothe your skin.

Antihistamines taken by mouth may be used to reduce itching. You can buy
antihistamines at the store without a prescription.

Moderate sun exposure or ultraviolet (UV) light treatment may help make the
rash go away more quickly. However, you must be careful to avoid sunburn.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pityriasis rosea often goes away within 4 to 8 weeks. It usually doesn't come
back.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of pityriasis
rosea.

## Alternative Names

Rash - pityriasis rosea; Papulosquamous - pityriasis rosea; Herald patch

## Images

    * ![Pityriasis rosea on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2503t.jpg)Pityriasis rosea on the chest

## References

Gehris RP. Dermatology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli
and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

Habif TP. Psoriasis and other papulosquamous diseases. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes_thumb.jpg)Rashes _Read
more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

