Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000964.htm    
                                Description: A diaper rash is a skin problem that develops in the area under an infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diaper rash

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000964.htm

# Diaper rash

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A diaper rash is a skin problem that develops in the area under an infant's
diaper.

## Causes

Diaper rashes are common in babies between 4 to 15 months old. They may be
noticed more when babies begin to eat solid foods.

Diaper rashes caused by infection with a yeast (fungus) called candida are
very common in children. Candida grows best in warm, moist places, such as
under a diaper. Candida diaper rash is more likely to occur in babies who:

    * Are not kept clean and dry
    * Are taking antibiotics or whose mothers are taking antibiotics while breastfeeding
    * Have more frequent stools 

Other causes of diaper rash include:

    * Acids in the stool (seen more often when the child has diarrhea)
    * Ammonia (a chemical produced when bacteria break down urine)
    * Diapers that are too tight or rub the skin
    * Reactions to soaps and other products used to clean cloth diapers 

## Symptoms

You may notice the following in your child's diaper area:

    * Bright red rash that gets bigger
    * VeryÂ red and scaly areas on the scrotum and penis in boys
    * Red or scaly areas on the labia and vagina in girls
    * Pimples, blisters, ulcers, large bumps, or sores filled with pus
    * Smaller red patches (called satellite lesions) that grow and blend in with the other patches 

Older infants may scratch when the diaper is removed.

Diaper rashes usually do not spread beyond the edge of the diaper.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can often diagnose a yeast diaper rash by looking at
your baby's skin. A KOH test can confirm if it is candida.

## Treatment

The best treatment for a diaper rash is to keep the skin clean and dry. This
also helps prevent new diaper rashes. Lay your baby on a towel without a
diaper whenever possible. The more time the baby can be kept out of a diaper,
the better.

Other tips include:

    * Always wash your hands before and after changing a diaper.
    * Change your baby's diaper often and as soon as possible after the baby urinates or passes stool.
    * Use water and a soft cloth or cotton ball to gently clean the diaper area with every diaper change. Do not rub or scrub the area. A squirt bottle of water may be used for sensitive areas.
    * Pat the area dry or allow to air-dry.
    * Put diapers on loosely. Diapers that are too tight do not allow enough air flow and may rub and irritate the baby's waist or thighs.
    * Using absorbent diapers helps keep the skin dry and reduces the chance of getting an infection.
    * Ask your provider or nurse which creams, ointments, or powders are best to use in the diaper area.
    * Ask if a diaper rash cream would be helpful. Zinc oxide or petroleum jelly-based products help keep moisture away from baby's skin when applied to completely clean, dry skin.
    * Do not use wipes that have alcohol or perfume. They may dry out or irritate the skin more.
    * Do not use talc (talcum powder). It can get into your baby's lungs. 

Certain skin creams and ointments will clear up infections caused by yeast.
Nystatin, miconazole, clotrimazole, and ketaconazole are commonly used
medicines for yeast diaper rashes. For severe rashes, a steroid ointment, such
as 1% hydrocortisone, may be applied. You can buy these without a
prescription. But first ask your provider if these medicines will help.

If you use cloth diapers:

    * Do not put plastic or rubber pants over the diaper. They do not allow enough air to pass through. Use breathable diaper covers instead.
    * Do not use fabric softeners or dryer sheets. They may make the rash worse.
    * When washing cloth diapers, rinse 2 or 3 times to remove all soap if your child already has a rash or has had one before. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The rash usually responds well to treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

    * The rash gets worse or does not go away in 2 to 3 days
    * The rash spreads to the abdomen, back, arms, or face
    * You notice pimples, blisters, ulcers, large bumps, or sores filled with pus
    * Your baby also has a fever
    * Your baby develops a rash during the first 6 weeks after birth 

## Alternative Names

Dermatitis - diaper and Candida; Candida-associated diaper dermatitis; Diaper
dermatitis; Dermatitis - irritant contact

## Images

    * ![Candida - fluorescent stain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1053t.jpg)Candida - fluorescent stain
    * ![Diaper rash](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17154t.jpg)Diaper rash
    * ![Diaper rash](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17153t.jpg)Diaper rash

## References

Bender NR, Chiu YE. Eczematous disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 674.

Gehris RP. Dermatology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli
and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes_thumb.jpg)Rashes _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

