Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003259.htm    
                                Description: A rash is a change in the color or texture of the skin. A skin rash can be:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rash - child under 2 years

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003259.htm

# Rash - child under 2 years

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A rash is a change in the color or texture of the skin. A skin rash can be:

    * Bumpy
    * Flat
    * Red, skin-colored, or slightly lighter or darker than skin color
    * Scaly

## Considerations

Most bumps and blotches on a newborn baby are harmless and clear up by
themselves.

The most common skin problem in infants is diaper rash. Diaper rash is an
irritation of the skin caused by dampness, urine, or feces. Most babies who
wear diapers will have some type of diaper rash.

Other skin disorders can cause rashes. These are most often not serious unless
they occur with other symptoms.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Diaper rash (rash in the diaper area) is a skin irritation caused by long-term dampness and by urine and feces touching the skin.
    * Yeast diaper rash is caused by a type of yeast called candida, which also causes thrush in the mouth. The rash looks different from a regular diaper rash. It is very red, and there are usually small red bumps on the outer edges of the rash. This rash requires treatment with medicine.
    * Heat rash, or prickly heat, is caused by the blockage of the pores that lead to the sweat glands. It is most common in very young children but can occur at any age. It is more common in hot and humid weather. The sweat is held within the skin and forms little red bumps or occasionally small blisters.
    * Erythema toxicum can cause flat red splotches (usually with a white, pimple-like bump in the middle) that appear in up to one half of all babies. This rash rarely appears after 5 days of age, and most often disappears in 7 to 14 days. It is nothing to worry about.
    * Baby acne is caused by exposure to the mother's hormones. Red bumps, sometimes with white dots in the center, may be seen on a newborn's face. Acne most often occurs between 2 and 4 weeks of age, but may appear up to 4 months after birth and can last for 12 to 18 months.
    * Cradle cap (seborrheic dermatitis) causes greasy, scaling, crusty patches on the scalp that appear in a baby's first 3 months. It most often goes away by itself, but some cases may require treatment with medicine.
    * Eczema is a condition of the skin in which areas are dry, scaly, red (or darker than normal skin color), and itchy. When it goes on for a long time the areas become thickened. It is often associated with asthma and allergies, although it can often occur without either of these. Eczema often runs in families.
    * Hives are red welts that appear to move around on the body. For example, if you drew a circle to mark one of the welts, a few hours later that circle would not have a welt in it, but there would be welts on other parts of the body. They differ in size and shape. Hives may last for a few weeks. The cause is uncertain. 

## Home Care

DIAPER RASHES

Keep the skin dry. Change wet diapers as quickly as possible. Allow the baby's
skin to air dry as long as is practical. Launder cloth diapers in mild soap
and rinse well. Avoid using plastic pants. Avoid irritating wipes (especially
those containing alcohol) when cleaning the infant.

Ointments or creams may help reduce friction and protect the baby's skin from
irritation. Powders such as cornstarch or talc should be used cautiously, as
they can be inhaled by the infant and may cause lung injury.

If your baby has a yeast diaper rash, the health care provider will prescribe
a cream to treat it.

OTHER RASHES

Heat rash or prickly heat is best treated by providing a cooler and less humid
environment for the child.

Powders are unlikely to help treat heat rash and should be stored out of reach
of the infant to prevent accidental inhalation. Avoid ointments and creams
because they tend to keep the skin warmer and block the pores.

Erythema toxicum is normal in newborn babies and will go away on its own in a
few days. You do not need to do anything for it.

White or clear milia/miliaria will go away on their own. You do not need to do
anything for it.

For hives, talk with your provider to try to find the cause. Some causes
require prescription medicines. Antihistamines may help stop the itching.

BABY ACNE

Normal washing is all that is necessary to treat baby acne most of the time.
Use plain water or mild baby soap and only bathe your baby every 2 to 3 days.
Avoid acne medicines used by adolescents and adults.

CRADLE CAP

For cradle cap, wash the hair or scalp with water or a mild baby shampoo. Use
a brush to remove the flakes of dry skin. If this cannot be removed easily,
apply an oil to the scalp to soften it. Cradle cap most often disappears by 18
months. If it does not disappear, it becomes infected, or if it is resistant
to treatments, consult your provider.

ECZEMA

For skin problems caused by eczema, the keys to reducing rash are to reduce
scratching and keep the skin moisturized.

    * Keep the baby's fingernails short and consider putting soft gloves on the child at night to minimize scratching.
    * Drying soaps and anything that has caused irritation in the past (including foods) should be avoided.
    * Apply a moisturizing cream or ointment immediately after baths to avoid drying.
    * Hot or long baths, or bubble baths, may be more drying and should be avoided.
    * Loose, cotton clothing will help absorb perspiration.
    * Consult a provider if these measures do not control the eczema, (your child may need prescription medicines) or if the skin begins to appear infected. 

While the majority of children with eczema will outgrow it, many will have
sensitive skin as adults.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if your child has:

    * A fever or other unexplained symptoms associated with the rash
    * Any areas that look wet, oozing, or red, which are signs of infection
    * A rash that extends beyond the diaper area
    * A rash that is worse in the skin creases
    * A rash, spots, blister, or discoloration and is younger than 3 months
    * Blisters
    * No improvement after 3 days of home treatment
    * Significant scratching

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. The baby's skin will be thoroughly
examined to determine the extent and type of the rash. Bring a list of all the
products used on the child's skin.

You may be asked questions such as:

    * When did the rash start?
    * Did symptoms begin at birth? Did they occur after fever was relieved?
    * Is the rash related to skin injury, bathing, or exposure to sunlight or cold?
    * What does the rash look like?
    * Where on the body does the rash occur? Has it spread to other areas?
    * What other symptoms are also present?
    * What type of soaps and detergents do you use?
    * Do you put anything on the skin (creams, lotions, oils, perfumes)?
    * Is your child taking any medicines? How long has the child taken them?
    * Has your child recently eaten any new foods?
    * Has your child been in contact with grasses/weeds/trees recently?
    * Has your child recently been sick?
    * Do any skin problems run in your family? Does your child or anyone in your family have allergies? 

Tests are seldom required but may include the following:

    * Allergy skin tests
    * Blood studies (such as CBC, blood differential)
    * Microscopic examination of a sample of the affected skin 

Depending on the cause of the rash, antihistamines may be recommended to
decrease itching. Antibiotics may be prescribed if there is a bacterial
infection.

The provider may prescribe a cream for diaper rash caused by yeast. If the
rash is severe and not caused by yeast, a corticosteroid cream may be
recommended.

For eczema, the provider may prescribe ointments or cortisone drugs to
decrease inflammation.

## Alternative Names

Baby rash; Miliaria; Prickly heat

## Images

    * ![Erythema toxicum on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1328t.jpg)Erythema toxicum on the foot
    * ![Heat rash](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17060t.jpg)Heat rash
    * ![Miliaria profunda - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2093t.jpg)Miliaria profunda - close-up
    * ![Erythema toxicum neonatorum - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2198t.jpg)Erythema toxicum neonatorum - close-up

## References

Gehris RP. Dermatology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli
and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 8.

Kohut T, Orozco A. Dermatology. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital; Hughes HK,
Kahl LK, eds. _The Johns Hopkins Hospital: The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes_thumb.jpg)Rashes _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

