Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001610.htm    
                                Description: Erythroderma is widespread scaling, peeling, and flaking of the skin. It is often accompanied by, itching, skin redness, and hair loss.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erythroderma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001610.htm

# Erythroderma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Erythroderma is widespread scaling, peeling, and flaking of the skin. It is
often accompanied by, itching, skin redness, and hair loss.

## Causes

This condition may occur in severe cases of many common skin conditions, such
as eczema and psoriasis. It is sometimes caused by an allergy to medicines,
chemicals that come in contact with the skin, or by body-wide disease.

Sometimes the cause is unknown.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Redness and scaling with weeping or crusting that cover over 80% to 90% of the body
    * Skin is itchy or painful and often has an odor
    * Swelling of the arms or legs
    * Fast heart beat
    * Loss of fluids leading to dehydration
    * Loss of temperature regulation by the body

There may be secondary infections of the skin.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform an examination and ask about the
symptoms. The skin will be carefully checked, often with an instrument called
a dermascope. Most of the time, the cause can be identified after the exam.

If needed, the following tests may be ordered:

    * Biopsy of the skin
    * Allergy testing
    * Other tests to find the cause of erythroderma

## Treatment

Since erythroderma can quickly lead to serious complications, the provider
will start treatment right away. This usually involves strong doses of
cortisone medicines to reduce inflammation.

Other treatments may include:

    * Medicines to treat the underlying cause of erythroderma, such as psoriasis
    * Antibiotics for any infection
    * Dressings applied to the skin
    * Ultraviolet light

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In serious cases, the person needs to be treated in the hospital.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Secondary infections that can lead to sepsis (bodywide inflammatory response)
    * Fluid loss that can result in dehydration and an imbalance of minerals (electrolytes) in the body 
    * Heart failure

## Prevention

Risk for erythroderma may be reduced by following the provider's instructions
on skin care for psoriasis or other skin conditions.

## Alternative Names

Exfoliative dermatitis; Dermatitis exfoliativa; Pruritus - exfoliative
dermatitis

## Images

    * ![Eczema, atopic - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2407t.jpg)Eczema, atopic - close-up
    * ![Psoriasis - magnified x4](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2232t.jpg)Psoriasis - magnified x4
    * ![Atopic dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19323t.jpg)Atopic dermatitis

## References

Habif TP. Exanthems and drug eruptions. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Whittaker S. Erythroderma. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 10.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eczema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Eczema_thumb.jpg)Eczema _Read more_

![Psoriasis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Psoriasis_thumb.jpg)Psoriasis
_Read more_

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes_thumb.jpg)Rashes _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

