Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000869.htm    
                                Description: Contact dermatitis is a condition in which the skin becomes red, sore, or inflamed after direct contact with a substance.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Contact dermatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000869.htm

# Contact dermatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Contact dermatitis is a condition in which the skin becomes red, sore, or
inflamed after direct contact with a substance.

## Causes

There are 2 types of contact dermatitis.

 **Irritant dermatitis** : This is the most common type. It is not caused by
an allergy, but rather the skin's reaction to irritating substances or
friction. Irritating substances may include acids, alkaline materials such as
soaps and detergents, fabric softeners, solvents, or other chemicals. Very
irritating chemicals may cause a reaction after just a short period of
contact. Milder chemicals can also cause a reaction after repeated contact.

People who have atopic dermatitis are at increased risk of developing irritant
contact dermatitis.

Common materials that may irritate your skin include:

    * Cement
    * Hair dyes
    * Long-term exposure to wet diapers
    * Pesticides or weed killers
    * Rubber gloves
    * Shampoos 

**Allergic contact dermatitis:** This form of the condition occurs when your
skin comes in contact with a substance that causes you to have an allergic
reaction.

Common allergens include:

    * Adhesives, including those used for false eyelashes or toupees.
    * Antibiotics, such as neomycin rubbed on the surface of the skin.
    * Balsam of Peru (used in many personal products and cosmetics, as well as in many foods and drinks).
    * Fabrics and clothing, including both materials and dyes.
    * Fragrances in perfumes, cosmetics, soaps, and moisturizers.
    * Nail polish, hair dyes, and permanent wave solutions.
    * Nickel or other metals (found in jewelry, watch straps, metal zips, bra hooks, buttons, pocketknives, lipstick holders, and powder compacts).
    * Poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac, and other plants.
    * Rubber or latex gloves or shoes.
    * Preservatives commonly used in prescription and over-the-counter topical medicines.
    * Formaldehyde, which is used in a broad number of manufactured items. 

You will not have a reaction to a substance when you are first exposed to the
substance. However, you will form a reaction after future exposures. You may
become more sensitive and develop a reaction if you use it regularly. It is
possible to tolerate the substance for years or even decades before developing
allergy. Once you develop an allergy you will be allergic for life.

The reaction most often occurs 24 to 48 hours after the exposure. The rash may
persist for weeks after the exposure stops.

Some products cause a reaction only when the skin is also exposed to sunlight
(photosensitivity). These include:

    * Shaving lotions
    * Sunscreens
    * Sulfa ointments
    * Some perfumes
    * Coal tar products
    * Oil from the skin of a lime 

A few airborne allergens, such as ragweed, perfumes, vapor from nail lacquer,
or insecticide spray, can also cause contact dermatitis.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary depending on the cause and whether the dermatitis is due to an
allergic reaction or an irritant. The same person may also have different
symptoms over time.

Allergic reactions may occur suddenly, or develop after months or years of
exposure.

Contact dermatitis often occurs on the hands. Hair products, cosmetics, and
perfumes can lead to skin reactions on the face, head, and neck. Jewelry can
also cause skin problems in the area under it.

Itching is a common symptom. In the case of an allergic dermatitis, itching
can be severe.

You may have red, streaky, or patchy rash where the substance touched the
skin. The allergic reaction is often delayed so that the rash may not appear
until 24 to 48 hours after exposure.

The rash may:

    * Have red bumps that may form moist, weeping blisters
    * Feel warm and tender
    * Ooze, drain, or crust
    * Become scaly, raw, or thickened 

Dermatitis caused by an irritant may also cause burning or pain as well as
itching. Irritant dermatitis often shows as dry, red, and rough skin. Cuts
(fissures) may form on the hands. Skin may become inflamed with long-term
exposure.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will make the diagnosis based on how the skin looks
and by asking questions about substances you may have come in contact with.

Allergy testing with skin patches (called patch testing) may be necessary to
determine what is causing the reaction. Patch testing is used for certain
people who have long-term or repeated contact dermatitis. It requires at least
3 office visits and must be done by a provider with the skill to interpret the
results correctly.

    * On the first visit, small patches of possible allergens are applied to the skin. These patches are removed 48 hours later to see if a reaction has occurred.
    * A third visit, about 2 days later, is done to look for any delayed reaction. For certain allergens such as metals, a final visit may be necessary on the 10thÂ day.
    * If you have already tested a material on a small area of your skin and noticed a reaction, you should bring the material with you. 

Other tests may be used to rule out other possible causes, including skin
lesion biopsy or culture of the skin lesion.

## Treatment

Your provider will recommend treatment based on what is causing the problem.
In some cases, the best treatment is to do nothing to the area.

Often, treatment includes washing the area with a lot of water to get rid of
any traces of the irritant that are still on the skin. You should avoid
further exposure to the substance.

Emollients or moisturizers help keep the skin moist, and also help skin repair
itself. They protect the skin from becoming inflamed again. They are a key
part of preventing and treating irritant contact dermatitis.

Topical corticosteroid drugs are commonly used to treat contact dermatitis.

    * Topical means you place it on the skin. You will be prescribed a cream or ointment. Topical corticosteroids may also be called topical steroids or topical cortisones.
    * DO NOT use more medicine or use it more often than your provider advises you to use it. 

Your provider may also prescribe other creams or ointments, such as tacrolimus
or pimecrolimus, to use on the skin.

In severe cases, you may need to take corticosteroid pills. Your provider will
start you on a high dose and your dose will be slowly reduced over about 12
days. You may also receive a corticosteroid shot.

Wet dressings and soothing anti-itch (antipruritic) lotions may be recommended
to reduce other symptoms.

Topical corticosteroids should be used only for short periods. Long-term use
increases the risk of developing more irritant contact dermatitis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Contact dermatitis clears up without complications in 2 or 3 weeks in most
cases. However, it may return if the substance that caused it cannot be found
or avoided.

You may need to change your job or job habits if the disorder is caused by
exposure at work. For example, jobs requiring frequent hand washing may be bad
choices for people with hand dermatitis.

Sometimes, the allergen causing the allergic contact dermatitis reaction is
never identified.

## Possible Complications

Bacterial skin infections may occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of contact dermatitis. 
    * The skin reaction is severe.
    * You do not get better after treatment.
    * Signs of infection such as tenderness, redness, warmth, or fever.

## Alternative Names

Dermatitis - contact; Allergic dermatitis; Dermatitis - allergic; Irritant
contact dermatitis; Skin rash - contact dermatitis

## Images

    * ![Poison oak rash on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1325t.jpg)Poison oak rash on the arm
    * ![Latex allergy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19328t.jpg)Latex allergy
    * ![Poison plants](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19330t.jpg)Poison plants
    * ![Dermatitis, nickel on the sole](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2190t.jpg)Dermatitis, nickel on the sole
    * ![Dermatitis - contact](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2387t.jpg)Dermatitis - contact
    * ![Dermatitis de contacto alÃ©rgica - vista de cerca](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2388t.jpg)Dermatitis - close-up of allergic contact
    * ![Dermatitis - contact on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2392t.jpg)Dermatitis - contact on the cheek
    * ![Dermatitis - pustular contact](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2397t.jpg)Dermatitis - pustular contact
    * ![Poison ivy on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2567t.jpg)Poison ivy on the knee
    * ![Poison ivy on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2568t.jpg)Poison ivy on the leg
    * ![Photocontact dermatitis on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2723t.jpg)Photocontact dermatitis on the hand

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Contact dermatitis
and drug eruptions. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus
IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 6.

Habif TP. Contact dermatitis and patch testing. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 4.

Nixon RL, Mowad CM, Marks JG. Allergic contact dermatitis. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cosmetics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cosmetics_thumb.jpg)Cosmetics
_Read more_

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes_thumb.jpg)Rashes _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

