Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000753.htm    
                                Description: Spasmodic dysphonia is difficulty speaking due to spasms (dystonia) of the muscles that control the vocal cords.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spasmodic dysphonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000753.htm

# Spasmodic dysphonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spasmodic dysphonia is difficulty speaking due to spasms (dystonia) of the
muscles that control the vocal cords.

## Causes

The exact cause of spasmodic dysphonia is unknown. Sometimes is it triggered
by psychological stress. Most cases result from a problem in the brain and
nervous system that can affect the voice. The vocal cord muscles spasm, or
contract, which causes the vocal cords to get too close or too far apart while
a person is using their voice.

Spasmodic dysphonia often occurs between ages 30 and 50. Women are more likely
to be affected than men.

Sometimes, the condition runs in the family.

## Symptoms

The voice is usually hoarse or grating. It may waver and pause. The voice may
sound strained or strangled, and it may seem as if the speaker has to use
extra effort. This is known as adductor dysphonia.

Sometimes, the voice is whispery or breathy. This is known as abductor
dysphonia.

The problem may go away when the person laughs, whispers, speaks in a high-
pitched voice, sings, or shouts.

Some people have muscle tone problems in other parts of the body, such as
writer's cramp.

## Exams and Tests

An ear, nose, and throat doctor will check for changes in the vocal cords and
other brain or nervous system problems.

Tests that will usually be done include:

    * Using a special scope with a light and camera to view the voice box (larynx)
    * Voice testing by a speech-language provider

## Treatment

There is no cure for spasmodic dysphonia. Treatment can only reduce the
symptoms. Medicine that treats spasm of the vocal cord muscles may be tried.
They appear to work in up to one half of people, at best. Some of these
medicines have bothersome side effects.

Botulinum toxin (Botox) treatments may help. Botulinum toxin comes from a
certain type of bacteria. Very small amounts of this toxin may be injected
into the muscles around the vocal cords. This treatment will often help for 3
to 4 months.

Surgery to cut one of the nerves to the vocal cords has been used to treat
spasmodic dysphonia, but it is not very effective. Other surgical treatments
may improve symptoms in some people, but further evaluation is necessary.

Brain stimulation may be useful in some people.

Voice therapy and psychological counseling may help to reduce the symptoms in
mild cases of spasmodic dysphonia.Â

## Alternative Names

Dysphonia - spasmodic; Speech disorder - spasmodic dysphonia

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Blitzer A, Sadoughi B, Guardiani E. Neurologic disorders of the larynx. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund VJ, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 58.

Flint PW. Throat disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 429.

Patel AK, Carroll TL. Hoarseness and dysphonia. In: Scholes MA, Ramakrishnan
VR, eds. _ENT Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 71.

US Department of Health & Human Services; National Institute on Deafness and
Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) website. Spasmodic dysphonia.
www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/spasmodic-dysphonia. Updated March 6, 2017. Accessed
June 27, 2018.  
Â

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dystonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dystonia_thumb.jpg)Dystonia _Read
more_

![Voice
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VoiceDisorder_thumb.jpg)Voice
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

