Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007637.htm    
                                Description: Botulimum toxin (BTX) is a type of nerve blocker. When injected, BTX blocks nerve signals to muscles so they relax.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Botulinum toxin injection - larynx

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007637.htm

# Botulinum toxin injection - larynx

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Botulimum toxin (BTX) is a type of nerve blocker. When injected, BTX blocks
nerve signals to muscles so they relax.

BTX is the toxin that causes botulism, a rare but serious illness. It is safe
when used in very small doses.

## Description

BTX is injected into the muscles around the vocal cords. This weakens the
muscles and improves voice quality. It is not a cure for laryngeal dystonia,
but can help ease the symptoms.

In most cases, you will have the BTX injections in your health care provider's
office. There are two common ways to inject BTX into the larynx:

Through the neck:

    * You may have local anesthesia to numb the area.
    * You may lie down on your back or remain sitting up. This will depend on your comfort and your provider's preference.
    * Your provider may use an EMG (electromyography) machine. An EMG machine records the movement of your vocal cord muscles through tiny electrodes placed on your skin. This helps your provider guide the needle to the correct area.
    * Another method involves using a flexible laryngoscope inserted through the nose to help guide the needle.

Through the mouth:

    * You may have general anesthesia so you are asleep during this procedure.
    * You may also have numbing medicine sprayed into your nose, throat, and larynx.
    * Your provider will use a long, curved needle to inject directly into the vocal cord muscles.
    * You provider may place a small camera (endoscope) into your mouth to guide the needle.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You would have this procedure if you have been diagnosed with laryngeal
dystonia. BTX injections are the most common treatment for this condition.

BTX injections are used to treat other problems in the voice box (larynx).
They are also used to treat many other conditions in different parts of the
body.

## After the Procedure

You may not be able to talk for about an hour after the injections.

BTX can cause some side effects. In most cases, these side effects only last a
few days. Some of the side effects include:

    * A breathy sound to your voice
    * Hoarseness
    * Weak cough
    * Trouble swallowing
    * Pain where the BTX was injected
    * Flu-like symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, BTX injections should improve your voice quality for about 3 to
4 months. To maintain your voice, you may need injections every few months.

Your provider may ask you to keep a diary of your symptoms to see how well and
how long the injection is working. This will help you and your provider find
the right dose for you and to decide how often you need treatment.

## Alternative Names

Injection laryngoplasty; Botox - larynx: spasmodic dysphonia-BTX; Essential
voice tremor (EVT)-btx; Glottic insufficiency; Percutaneous electromyography -
guided botulinum toxin treatment; Percutaneous indirect laryngoscopy - guided
botulinum toxin treatment; Adductor dysphonia-BTX; OnabotulinumtoxinA-larynx;
AbobotulinumtoxinA

## References

Akst L. Hoarseness and laryngitis. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2019._ Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:30-35.

Blitzer A, Sadoughi B, Guardiani E. Neurologic disorders of the larynx. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 58.

Flint PW. Throat disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 429.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dystonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dystonia_thumb.jpg)Dystonia _Read
more_

![Voice
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VoiceDisorder_thumb.jpg)Voice
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

