Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000749.htm    
                                Description: Torticollis is a condition in which the neck muscles cause the head to turn or rotate to the side.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Torticollis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000749.htm

# Torticollis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Torticollis is a condition in which the neck muscles cause the head to turn or
rotate to the side.

## Causes

Torticollis may be:

    * Due to changes in genes, often passed down in the family
    * Due to problems in the nervous system, upper spine, or muscles

The condition may also occur without a known cause.

With torticollis present at birth, it may occur if:

    * The baby's head was in the wrong position while growing in the womb
    * The muscles or blood supply to the neck were injured

## Symptoms

Symptoms of torticollis include:

    * Limited movement of the head
    * Headache
    * Head tremor
    * Neck pain
    * Shoulder that is higher than the other
    * Stiffness of the neck muscles
    * Swelling of the neck muscles (possibly present at birth) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The exam may show:

    * The head is rotated, tilted, or leaning forward or backward. In severe cases, the entire head is pulled and turned to one side.
    * Shortened or larger neck muscles.

Tests that may be done include:

    * X-ray of the neck
    * CT scan of the head and neck
    * Electromyogram (EMG) to see which muscles are most affected
    * MRI of the head and neck
    * Blood tests to look for medical conditions that are linked to torticollis

## Treatment

Treating torticollis that is present at birth involves stretching the
shortened neck muscle. Passive stretching and positioning are used in infants
and small children. In passive stretching, a device such as strap, a person,
or something else is used to hold the body part in a certain position. These
treatments are often successful, especially if they are started within 3
months of birth.

Surgery to correct the neck muscle may be done in the preschool years, if
other treatment methods fail.

Torticollis that is caused by damage to the nervous system, spine, or muscles
is treated by finding the cause of the disorder and treating it. Depending on
the cause, treatment may include:

    * Physical therapy (applying heat, traction to the neck, and massage to help relieve head and neck pain).
    * Stretching exercises and neck braces to help with muscle spasms.
    * Taking medicines such as baclofen to reduce neck muscle contractions.
    * Injecting botulinum.
    * Trigger point injections to relieve pain at a particular point.
    * Surgery of the spine might be needed when the torticollis is due to dislocated vertebrae. In some cases, surgery involves destroying some of the nerves in the neck muscles, or using brain stimulation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition may be easier to treat in infants and children. If torticollis
becomes chronic, numbness and tingling may develop due to pressure on the
nerve roots in the neck.

## Possible Complications

Complications in children may include:

    * Flat head syndrome
    * Deformity of the face due to lack of sternomastoid muscle movement

Complications in adults may include:

    * Muscle swelling due to constant tension
    * Nervous system symptoms due to pressure on nerve roots

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if symptoms do not improve with
treatment, or if new symptoms develop.

Torticollis that occurs after an injury or with illness may be serious. Seek
medical help right away if this occurs.

## Prevention

While there is no known way to prevent this condition, early treatment may
prevent it from getting worse.

## Alternative Names

Spasmodic torticollis; Wry neck; Loxia; Cervical dystonia; Cock-robin
deformity; Twisted neck; Grisel syndrome

## Images

    * ![Torticollis \(wry neck\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19090t.jpg)Torticollis (wry neck)

## References

Krauss JK. Selective peripheral denervation for cervical dystonia. In: Winn
HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 96.

Marcdante KJ, Kleigman RM. Spine. In: Marcdante KJ, Kleigman RM, eds. _Nelson
Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 202.

White KK, Bouchard M, Goldberg MJ. Common neonatal orthopedic conditions. In:
Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 101.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dystonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dystonia_thumb.jpg)Dystonia _Read
more_

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

