Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000369.htm    
                                Description: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a condition in which a woman has increased levels of male hormones (androgens). Many problems occur as a result of this increase of hormones, including:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polycystic ovary syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000369.htm

# Polycystic ovary syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a condition in which a woman has increased
levels of male hormones (androgens). Many problems occur as a result of this
increase of hormones, including:

    * Menstrual irregularities
    * Infertility
    * Skin problems such as acne and increased hair growth
    * Increased number of small cysts in the ovaries

## Causes

PCOS is linked to changes in hormone levels that make it harder for the
ovaries to release fully-grown (mature) eggs. The reasons for these changes
are unclear. The hormones affected are:

    * Estrogen and progesterone, the female hormones that help a woman's ovaries release eggs 
    * Androgen, a male hormone that is found in small amounts in women

Normally, one or more eggs are released during a woman's cycle. This is known
as ovulation. In most cases, this release of eggs occurs about 2 weeks after
the start of a menstrual period.

In PCOS, mature eggs are not released. Instead, they stay in the ovaries with
a small amount of fluid (cyst) around them. There can be many of these.
However, not all women with the condition will have ovaries with this
appearance.

These problems with the release of eggs can contribute to infertility. The
other symptoms of this disorder are due to the high levels of male hormones.

Most of the time, PCOS is diagnosed in women in their 20s or 30s. However, it
may also affect teenage girls. The symptoms often begin when a girl's periods
start. Women with this disorder often have a mother or sister who has similar
symptoms.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of PCOS include changes in the menstrual cycle, such as:

    * Not getting a period after you have had one or more normal ones during puberty (secondary amenorrhea)
    * Irregular periods that may come and go, and be very light to very heavy

Other symptoms of PCOS include:

    * Extra body hair that grows on the chest, belly, face, and around the nipples
    * Acne on the face, chest, or back
    * Skin changes, such as dark or thick skin markings and creases around the armpits, groin, neck, and breasts 

The development of male characteristics is not typical of PCOS and may
indicate another problem. The following changes may indicate another problem
apart from PCOS:

    * Thinning hair on the head at the temples, called male pattern baldness
    * Enlargement of the clitoris
    * Deepening of the voice
    * Decrease in breast size

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. This will include a
pelvic exam. The exam may show:

    * Enlarged ovaries with many small cysts noted on ultrasound
    * Enlarged clitoris (very rare)

The following health conditions are common in women with PCOS:

    * Insulin resistance and diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * High cholesterol
    * Weight gain and obesity 

Your provider will check your weight and body mass index (BMI) and measure
your belly size.

Blood tests can be done to check hormone levels. These tests may include:

    * Estrogen level
    * FSH level
    * LH level
    * Male hormone (testosterone) level

Other blood tests that may be done include:

    * Fasting glucose (blood sugar) and other tests for glucose intolerance and insulin resistance
    * Lipid level
    * Pregnancy test (serum hCG)
    * Prolactin level
    * Thyroid function tests

Your provider may also order ultrasound of your pelvis to look at your
ovaries.

## Treatment

Weight gain and obesity are common in women with PCOS. Losing even a small
amount of weight can help treat:

    * Hormone changes
    * Conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, or high cholesterol

Your provider may prescribe birth control pills to make your periods more
regular. These pills may also help reduce abnormal hair growth and acne if you
take them for several months.

A diabetes medicine called Glucophage (metformin) may also be prescribed to:

    * Make your periods regular
    * Prevent type 2 diabetes
    * Help you lose weight

Other medicines that may be prescribed to help make your periods regular and
help you get pregnant are:

    * LH-releasing hormone (LHRH) analogs
    * Clomiphene citrate or letrozole, which may allow your ovaries to release eggs and improve your chance of pregnancy

These medicines work better if your body mass index (BMI) is 30 or less (below
the obese range).

Your provider may also suggest other treatments for abnormal hair growth. Some
are:

    * Spironolactone or flutamide pills
    * Eflornithine creamÂ 

Effective methods of hair removal include electrolysis and laser hair removal.
However, many treatments may be needed. Treatments are expensive and the
results are often not permanent.

A pelvic laparoscopy may be done to remove or alter an ovary to treat
infertility. This improves the chances of releasing an egg. The effects are
temporary.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, women with PCOS are very often able to get pregnant. During
pregnancy, there is an increased risk of:

    * Miscarriage
    * High blood pressure
    * Gestational diabetes

## Possible Complications

Women with PCOS are more likely to develop:

    * Endometrial cancer
    * Infertility
    * Diabetes
    * Obesity-related complications

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Polycystic ovaries; Polycystic ovary disease; Stein-Leventhal syndrome;
Polyfollicular ovarian disease; PCOS

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Stein-Leventhal syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17209t.jpg)Stein-Leventhal syndrome
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Follicle development](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8652t.jpg)Follicle development

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Lobo RA. Polycystic ovary syndrome. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 41.

Rebar RW, Catherino WH. Reproductive endocrinology and infertility. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 236.

Rosenfield RL, Barnes RB, Ehrmann DA. Hyperandrogenism, hirsutism, and
polycystic ovary syndrome. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 133.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Polycystic Ovary
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PolyCysticOvarianSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Polycystic
Ovary Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

