Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000757.htm    
                                Description: Sleep patterns are often learned as children. When we repeat these patterns over many years, they become habits.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Changing your sleep habits

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000757.htm

# Changing your sleep habits

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sleep patterns are often learned as children. When we repeat these patterns
over many years, they become habits.

Insomnia is difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep. In many cases, you
can relieve insomnia by making a few simple lifestyle changes. But, it may
take some time if you have had the same sleep habits for years.

## How Much Sleep is Enough?

People who have insomnia are often worried about getting enough sleep. The
more they try to sleep, the more frustrated and upset they get, and the harder
it becomes to sleep.

    * While 7 to 8 hours a night is recommended for most people, children and teenagers need more.
    * Older people tend to do fine with less sleep at night. But they may still need about 8 hours of sleep over a 24-hour period. 

Remember, the quality of sleep and how rested you feel afterward is as
important as how much sleep you get.

## Change Your Lifestyle

Before you go to bed:

    * Write down all the things that worry you in a journal. This way, you can transfer your worries from your mind to paper, leaving your thoughts quieter and better suited for falling asleep. 

During the day:

    * Be more active. Walk or exercise for at least 30 minutes on most days.
    * DO NOT take naps during the day or in the evening. 

Stop or cut back on smoking and drinking alcohol. And reduce your caffeine
intake.

If you are taking any medicines, diet pills, herbs, or supplements, ask your
health care provider about the effects they may have on your sleep.

Find ways to manage stress.

    * Learn about relaxation techniques, such as guided imagery, listening to music, or practicing yoga or meditation.
    * Listen to your body when it tells you to slow down or take a break. 

## Change Your Bedtime Habits

Your bed is for sleeping. DO NOT do things like eat or work while in bed.

Develop a sleep routine.

    * If possible, wake up at the same time each day.
    * Go to bed around the same time every day, but not more than 8 hours before you expect to start your day.
    * Avoid beverages with caffeine or alcohol in the evening.
    * Avoid eating heavy meals at least 2 hours before going to sleep. 

Find calming, relaxing activities to do before bedtime.

    * Read or take a bath so that you do not dwell on worrisome issues.
    * DO NOT watch TV or use a computer near the time you want to fall asleep.
    * Avoid activity that increases your heart rate for the 2 hours before going to bed.
    * Make sure your sleep area is quiet, dark, and is at a temperature you like. 

If you cannot fall asleep within 30 minutes, get up and move to another room.
Do a quiet activity until you feel sleepy.

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk to your provider if:

    * You are feeling sad or depressed
    * Pain or discomfort is keeping you awake
    * You are taking any medicine that may be keeping you awake
    * You have been taking medicines for sleep without talking to your provider first 

## Alternative Names

Insomnia - sleep habits; Sleep disorder - sleep habits; Problems falling
asleep; Sleep hygiene

## References

American Academy of Sleep Medicine. Insomnia - overview and facts.
sleepeducation.org/essentials-in-sleep/insomnia. Updated March 4, 2015.
Accessed June 14, 2018.

Edinger JD, Leggett MK, Carney CE, Manber R. Psychological and behavioral
treatments for insomnia II: implementation and specific populations. In:
Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 86.

Vaughn BV. Disorders of sleep. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 405.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Healthy Sleep
    * Insomnia
    * Sleep Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

