Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000871.htm    
                                Description: As life gets more hectic, it is all too easy to go without sleep. In fact, many Americans only get 6 hours of sleep a night or less.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sleep and your health

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000871.htm

# Sleep and your health

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

As life gets more hectic, it is all too easy to go without sleep. In fact,
many Americans only get 6 hours of sleep a night or less.

You need ample sleep to help restore your brain and body. Not getting enough
sleep can be bad for your health in a number of ways.

## Why you Need Sleep

Sleep gives your body and brain time to recover from the stresses of the day.
After a good night's sleep, you perform better and are better at making
decisions. Sleep can help you feel more alert, optimistic, and get along with
people better. Sleep also helps your body ward off disease.

## How Much Sleep do you Need

Different people need different amounts of sleep. Most adults need 7 to 8
hours of sleep a night for good health and mental functioning. Some adults
need up to 9 hours a night.

## Why you Might not get Enough Sleep

There are many reasons why sleep is in such short supply.

    *  **Busy schedules.** Evening activities, whether it is work or social, are one of the top reasons people do not get enough sleep.
    *  **Poor sleep environment.** It is a lot harder to get a good night's sleep in a bedroom with too much noise or light, or that is either too cold or too warm.
    *  **Electronics.** Tablets and cell phones that ring and beep throughout the night disrupt sleep. They can also make it impossible to disconnect from the waking world.
    *  **Medical conditions.** Some health conditions can prevent deep sleep. These include arthritis, back pain, heart disease, and conditions such as asthma that make it hard to breathe. Depression, anxiety, and substance abuse also make sleep hard to come by. Some medicines disrupt sleep.
    *  **Stress about sleeping.** After several nights of tossing and turning, just being in bed can make you anxious and awake, even when you are very tired. 

**Sleep disorders**

Sleep problems are a big reason why many people can't get enough sleep.
Treatment can help in many cases.

    * Insomnia, occurs when you have trouble falling asleep or sleeping through the night. It is the most common sleep disorder. Insomnia can last for a night, a couple of weeks, or for months on end.
    * Sleep apnea is a condition in which your breathing pauses throughout the night. Even if you do not wake up all the way, sleep apnea repeatedly interrupts deep sleep.
    * Restless legs syndrome can keep you awake with the desire to move your legs anytime you are resting. Often restless legs syndrome comes with uncomfortable feelings such as burning, tingling, itching, or creeping in your legs. 

## Sleep and Safety

Lack of sleep affects more than just the person who is short on shut-eye.
Fatigue has been linked to accidents both large and small. Overtiredness led
to the human errors behind several large disasters including the Exxon-Valdez
oil spill and the Chernobyl nuclear accident. Poor sleep has contributed to
numerous airplane crashes.

Each year, up to 100,000 car accidents and 1,550 deaths are caused by
exhausted drivers. Drowsy driving impairs alertness and reaction time as much
as driving while drunk.

Lack of sleep can also make it harder to stay safe on the job. It can lead to
medical errors and industrial accidents.

## Sleep and Your Health

Without enough sleep, your brain struggles to perform basic functions. You may
find it hard to concentrate or remember things. You may become moody and lash
out at co-workers or people you love.

Just as your brain needs sleep to restore itself, so does your body does too.
When you do not have enough sleep, your risk goes up for several illnesses.

    * Diabetes. Your body does not do as well controlling blood sugar when you do not get enough sleep.
    * Heart disease. Lack of sleep can lead to high blood pressure and inflammation, two things that can damage your heart.
    * Obesity. When you do not get enough rest from sleep, you are more prone to overeat. It is also harder to resist foods high in sugar and fat.
    * Infection. Your immune system needs you to sleep so it can fight colds and keep you healthy.
    * Mental health. Depression and anxiety often make it hard to sleep. They also can become worse after a string of sleepless nights. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk with your health care provider if you are often tired during the day, or
lack of sleep makes it hard to do daily activities. There are treatments
available to improve sleep.

## References

Carskadon MA, Dement WC. Normal human sleep: an overview. In: Kryger M, Roth
T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 2.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Sleep and sleep disorders.
www.cdc.gov/sleep/index.html. Updated February 22, 2018. Accessed August 13,
2018.

Drake CL, Wright KP. Shift work, shift-work disorder, and jet lag. In: Kryger
M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 75.

Philip P, Sagaspe P, Taillard J. Drowsiness in transportation workers. In:
Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

Van Dongen HPA, Balkin TJ, Hursh SR. Performance deficits during sleep loss
and their operational consequences. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 71.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Healthy Sleep
    * Sleep Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

