Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000853.htm    
                                Description: Everyone has trouble sleeping some of the time. But if it happens often, lack of sleep can affect your health and make it hard to get through the day. Learn lifestyle tips that can help you get the rest    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Can't sleep? Try these tips

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000853.htm

# Can't sleep? Try these tips

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Everyone has trouble sleeping some of the time. But if it happens often, lack
of sleep can affect your health and make it hard to get through the day. Learn
lifestyle tips that can help you get the rest you need.

## What you can do

Some people have trouble falling asleep. Others wake up in the middle of the
night and cannot get back to sleep. You can change your habits and your home
to make sleep less fleeting.

Stick to a sleep schedule:

    *  **Go to bed and get up at the same time.** Going to sleep at the same time every night trains your body and brain to wind down and get ready for slumber.
    *  **Get up if you cannot sleep.** If you lay awake for 15 minutes, get out of bed and go to another part of the house. This way your bed is less likely to become a place of stress.
    *  **Do something quiet and relaxing like read a book.** This can also help take your mind of the fact that you are not sleeping. When you feel drowsy, return to bed. 

Make your bedroom comfortable:

    *  **Get a comfortable mattress.** If your mattress is lumpy, too soft, or too hard, it will be hard to get comfortable enough for sleep.
    *  **Keep it cool.** Your body temperature goes down when you sleep. Make sure your bedroom is cool enough but not so cool that you wake up cold. Experiment with the thermostat and blankets to find what temperature works for you.
    *  **Control the light.** Light from the street, a TV, or the next room can make it hard to stay asleep. Use curtains and doors to make your room dark so you can sleep. You can also try using a sleep mask.
    *  **Control sounds.** Make your room as quiet as you can. You might use a fan, soft music, or sound machine to create white noise you can sleep to.
    *  **Hide the clock.** Watching the hours tick by can stress you out. Turn the clock so you cannot see it from your pillow.
    *  **Put away electronics.** Silence any device that reminds you of emails you need to send or things you need to do. You will be better off doing those things after a good night's sleep. 

**Practice Relaxation**

Try different ways to relax. Find what works for you. Such as:

    * Drink something warm and non-caffeinated like warm milk or herbal tea.
    * Take a warm shower or bath.
    * Read a book or magazine.
    * Listen to soft music or an audiobook.
    * Count backward from 300 by 3.
    * Meditate.
    * Starting at your feet and working your way up to your head, tense each group of muscles for a second or two and then relax them.
    * Do belly breathing. Put your hand on your belly. Take a breath in, letting it push your hand out as your belly rises. Your chest should not move. Hold it for a count of 5, release for a count of 5. Repeat. 

**Live for Good Sleep**

Things you do during the day can affect how well you sleep at night. You
should:

    *  **Limit evening activities.** When you are on the run, your day may not end until late evening. Try to limit evening plans to a few nights a week. Give yourself time for a soothing bedtime ritual to help prepare you for sleep, such as a warm bath or reading in bed.
    *  **Exercise.** Regular exercise will help you sleep better. Just be sure you plan your workout right. Overtraining or exercising less than 3 hours before bedtime can make you toss and turn.
    *  **Limit naps.** If you are having trouble sleeping, cut out the catnaps. You will sleep better at night.
    *  **Limit caffeine.** It might be a helpful pick-up in the morning, but you may go to bed wired if you drink coffee, tea, or caffeinated sodas in the afternoon or evening.
    *  **Limit alcohol.** It may help you get to sleep at first, but alcohol keeps you from deep, restoring sleep later at night.
    *  **Kick the habit.** Need another reason to quit smoking? The nicotine in cigarettes can disrupt sleep.
    *  **Eat smart.** Avoid heavy meals before bedtime. Try to eat 2 or 3 hours before bedtime. If you feel hungry right before you go to bed, have a small, healthy snack like a small bowl of yogurt or low sugar cereal. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if lack of sleep is interfering with your daily
activities.

## References

Berry RB, Wagner MH. Behavioral treatment of insomnia. In: Berry RB, Wagner
MH, eds. _Sleep Medicine Pearls_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 38.

Morin CM, Davidson JR, Beaulieu-Bonneau S. Cognitive behavior therapies for
insomnia I: approaches and efficacy. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 85.

National Sleep Foundation website. Sleep health. www.sleep.org. Accessed
August 10, 2018.

National Sleep Foundation website. 2014 Sleep in America Poll: Sleep in the
modern family. www.sleepfoundation.org/professionals/sleep-america-
polls/2014-sleep-modern-family. Accessed August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-12-19:
Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Healthy Sleep
    * Insomnia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

