Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000804.htm    
                                Description: A natural short sleeper is someone who sleeps a lot less in a 24-hour period than is expected for people of the same age, without being abnormally sleepy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Natural short sleeper

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000804.htm

# Natural short sleeper

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A natural short sleeper is someone who sleeps a lot less in a 24-hour period
than is expected for people of the same age, without being abnormally sleepy.

## Causes

Although each person's need for sleep varies, the typical adult needs an
average of 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night. Short sleepers sleep less than
75% of what is normal for their age.

Natural short sleepers are different from people who chronicallyÂ do notÂ get
enough sleep because of work or family demands, or those who have medical
conditions that disrupt sleep.

## Symptoms

Natural short sleepers are not overly tired or sleepy during the day.

## Treatment

No specific treatment is needed.

## Alternative Names

Sleep - natural short sleeper

## Images

    * ![Natural short sleeper](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17230t.jpg)Natural short sleeper
    * ![Sleep patterns in the young and aged](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8692t.jpg)Sleep patterns in the young and aged

## References

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Landolt H-P, Dijk D-J. Genetics and genomic basis of sleep in healthy humans.
In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep
Medicine._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

Mansukhani MP, Kolla BP, St. Louis EK, Morgenthaler TI. Sleep disorders. In:
Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019._ Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:721-736.

## Review Date 10/13/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Healthy Sleep](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthySleep_thumb.jpg)Healthy
Sleep _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

