Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003304.htm    
                                Description: An ear tag is a small skin tag or pit in front of the outside part of the ear.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear tag

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003304.htm

# Ear tag

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An ear tag is a small skin tag or pit in front of the outside part of the ear.

## Considerations

Skin tags and pits just in front of the opening of the ear are common in
newborn infants.

In most cases, these are normal. However, they can be associated with other
medical conditions. It is important to point out skin tags or pits to your
child's health care provider during the routine well-child exam.

## Causes

Some causes of an ear tag or pit are:

    * An inherited tendency to have this facial feature
    * A genetic syndrome that includes having these pits or tags
    * A sinus tract problem (an abnormal connection between the skin and tissue underneath)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Your provider will most often find the skin tag during your first well-baby
visit. However, call your provider if your child has bleeding, swelling, or
discharge at the site.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will get a medical history and will do a physical exam.

Medical history questions about this condition might include:

    * What exactly is the problem (skin tag, pit, or other)?
    * Are both ears affected or only one?
    * What other symptoms are present?
    * Does the child respond normally to sounds? 

Physical exam:

Your baby will be examined for other signs of disorders that are sometimes
associated with ear tags or pits. A hearing test may be done if the child did
not have the usual newborn screening test.

## Alternative Names

Preauricular tag; Preauricular pit

## Images

    * ![Newborn ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9529t.jpg)Newborn ear anatomy

## References

Demke JC, Tatum SA. Craniofacial surgery for congenital and acquired
deformities. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 186.

Patterson JW. Miscellaneous conditions. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

