Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001451.htm    
                                Description: Ichthyosis vulgaris is a skin disorder passed down through families that leads to dry, scaly skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ichthyosis vulgaris

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001451.htm

# Ichthyosis vulgaris

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ichthyosis vulgaris is a skin disorder passed down through families that leads
to dry, scaly skin.

## Causes

Ichthyosis vulgaris is one of the most common of the inherited skin disorders.
It may begin in early childhood. The condition is inherited in an autosomal
dominant pattern. That means if you have the condition, your child has a 50%
chance of getting the gene from you.

The condition is often more noticeable in the winter. It may occur along with
other skin problems including atopic dermatitis, asthma, keratosis pilaris
(small bumps on the back of the arms and legs), or other skin disorders.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Dry skin, severe
    * Scaly skin (scales)
    * Possible skin thickening
    * Mild itching of the skin 

The dry, scaly skin is usually most severe on the legs. But it can also
involve the arms, hands, and middle of the body. People with this condition
may also have many fine lines on the palms.

In infants, the skin changes usually appear in the first year of life. Early
on, the skin is only slightly rough, but by the time a baby is about 3 months
old, they begin appearing on the shins and back of the arms.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose this condition by looking at
your skin. Tests may be done to rule out other possible causes of dry, scaly
skin.

Your provider will ask if you have a family history of similar skin dryness.

A skin biopsy may be performed.

## Treatment

Your provider may ask you to use heavy-duty moisturizers. Creams and ointments
work better than lotions. Apply these to moist skin immediately after bathing.
You should use mild, non-drying soaps.

Your provider may tell you to use hydrating-moisturizing creams that contain
keratolytic chemicals such as lactic acid, salicylic acid, and urea. These
chemicals help skin shed normally while retaining moisture.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Ichthyosis vulgaris can be bothersome, but it rarely affects your overall
health. The condition usually disappears during adulthood, but may return
years later as people age.

## Possible Complications

A bacterial skin infection may develop if scratching causes openings in the
skin.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * Symptoms continue despite treatment
    * Symptoms get worse
    * Skin lesions spread
    * New symptoms develop 

## Alternative Names

Common ichthyosis

## References

American Academy of Dermatology website. Ichthyosis vulgaris.
www.aad.org/diseases/a-z/ichthyosis-vulgaris-overview. Accessed December 23,
2019.

Martin KL. Disorders of keratinization. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 677.

Metze D, Oji V. Disorders of keratinization. In: Calonje E, Brenn T, Lazar AJ,
Billings SD, eds. _McKee's Pathology of the Skin_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 3.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 12/23/19.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

