Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001458.htm    
                                Description: Erythema toxicum is a common skin condition seen in newborns.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erythema toxicum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001458.htm

# Erythema toxicum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Erythema toxicum is a common skin condition seen in newborns.

## Causes

Erythema toxicum may appear in approximately one half of all normal newborn
infants. The condition may appear in the first few hours of life, or it can
appear after the first day. The condition can last for several days.

Although erythema toxicum is harmless, it can be of great concern to the new
parent. Its cause is unknown but thought to be related to the immune system.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is a rash of small, yellow-to-white-colored bumps (papules)
surrounded by red skin. There may be a few or several papules. They are
usually on the face and in the middle of the body. They can also be seen on
the upper arms and thighs.

The rash can change rapidly, appearing and disappearing in different areas
over hours to days.

## Exams and Tests

Your baby's health care provider can often make a diagnosis during a routine
exam after birth. Testing is usually not needed. A skin scraping may be done
if the diagnosis is not clear.

## Treatment

The large red splotches usually disappear without any treatment or changes in
skin care.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The rash usually clears within 2 weeks. It is often completely gone by age 4
months.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Discuss the condition with your baby's provider during a routine examination
if you are concerned.

## Alternative Names

Erythema toxicum neonatorum; ETN; Toxic erythema of the newborn; Flea-bite
dermatitis

## Images

    * ![Neonate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9692t.jpg)Neonate

## References

Martin KL. Diseases of the neonate. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 647.

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Cutaneous disorders of the newborn. In: Paller AS,
Mancini AJ, eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric Dermatology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

