

Skip to main content

![](https://tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/mobile-logo.png) search

A-Z Index

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

Search The CDC

Cancel Submit

Search The CDC

During the COVID-19 pandemic, CDC is working diligently to fulfill our
mission. New positions are posted often in a wide range of professions. Please
check our site frequently for your opportunity to contribute to the health
security of our nation.We are also currently accepting applications to fill
multiple Temporary Positions.

## Mission Support

Close

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Careers Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Working at CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Students
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Commissioned Corps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overseas Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Job Seekers with Disabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Career Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Scientists & Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mission Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Executives & Scientists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hiring Events

Search Jobs

## Search Jobs

Keyword

Category Choose a job category Administrative Officer Architecture Biological
Science Technician Computer Science Contracting COVID-19 Education And
Training Technician Electronics Technical Emergency Management Specialist
General Arts And Information General Education And Training General
Engineering General Health Science Grants Management Human Resources
Assistance Human Resources Management Information Technology Management
Interior Design Management And Program Analysis Medical Officer Microbiology
Miscellaneous Administration And Program Nurse Public Health Program
Specialist Quality Assurance Safety and Occupational Health Management
Statistics

State Choose a state Alaska Arizona California Colorado Connecticut Florida
Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kentucky Louisiana Maine Mangilao
Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri Nebraska Nevada New Jersey
New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon
Pennsylvania Rhode Island San Juan South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont
Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin

City Choose a city Albany Albuquerque Alexandria Anchorage Ashley Atlanta
Augusta Austin Baltimore Baton Rouge Berlin Blue Springs Boise Boston Boston
Bruceton Burlington Charleston Chicago Cincinnati Coalmont College Park
Columbia Columbia Columbus Concord Dallas Denver Des Moines Detroit Durham El
Paso Ellicott City Fairfield Fenton Fort Collins Fort Lauderdale Fort Worth
Frankfort Freeport Gainesville Hartford Hollywood Honolulu Houston Hyattsville
Indianapolis Keller Kensington Las Vegas Lincoln Los Angeles Lyndhurst Madison
Marlborough Miami Milton Minneapolis Monroe Morgantown Nashville New Orleans
New York Newark North Augusta North Miami Northampton Oklahoma City Perrysburg
Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland Potomac Providence Raleigh Richmond
Richmond Rockville Saint Charles Saint Paul Salt Lake City San Antonio San
Diego San Francisco Santa Fe Seattle Shoreline Silver Spring Spokane Suffern
Tallahassee Toledo Trenton Trenton Tulsa Vero Beach White Oak Woodlawn Yardley

Search Jobs Reset

## On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mission Support

# Mission Support Careers

CDC mission support occupations play an integral role in supporting CDC
frontline positions. Whether the responsibilities are negotiating and
procuring contracts or typing memorandums for the CDC director, each position
is essential and contributes greatly toward the success of accomplishing
agency goals and objectives. Incumbents serve in various roles such as
financial and budget analysts, information technology specialists,
secretaries, mechanical engineers, program operations assistants,
program/management, policy analysts and writers/editors, just to name a few.

There are many other nonmedical, technical and administrative specialties
under the mission support umbrella, which do not typically require any
significant knowledge and/or experience in the medical or science health
field.

You don't need to have experience in medicine or science to work at CDC.
Positions are available for a variety of nonmedical, technical and
administrative professionals at CDC.

## Featured Jobs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Public Health Advisor Date posted 04/06/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nurse Consultant Date posted 04/06/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Policy Analyst Date posted 04/06/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Public Health Advisor Date posted 04/06/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survey Statistician (Direct Hire) Date posted 04/06/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survey Statistician (Direct Hire) Date posted 04/06/2020

Match Our Jobs To Your **LinkedIn Profile**

![LinkedIn
Logo](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/callout/callout-17896-12712.png)
Job Match

Use your LinkedIn profile to see which jobs at CDC may be a good fit for you.
Just click the icon to get started.

![Lab Employee](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/lab-
employee-1.jpg)

## Scientific research is in CDC's DNA.

Join our team and apply science to solve important health problems.

![Lab Employee](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/lab-
employee-2.jpg)

## Love lab work?

Conduct critical science at CDC and help protect our nation against dangerous
health threats.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ## USPHS Commissioned Corps

![](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/thumb/thumb-77031-288118.jpg)

Join the thousands of highly qualified public health professionals as part of
the U.S. Public Health Service Corps. Overseen by the surgeon general, you
will be part of an elite and diverse team of professionals essential to public
health leadership and exemplary clinical service.

Learn More

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ## Benefits

![Benefits](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/17896/content/benefits.jpg)

Our federal benefit package is among the best offered in the private and
public sectors. It includes medical, dental, and life insurance; 10 paid
holidays; paid vacation, personal, and sick time; flexible work schedules;
transportation subsidy; and more. Eligibility depends on the position held.

Learn More

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ## Student Internships and Jobs

![](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/thumb/thumb-77031-284192.jpg)

CDC has numerous internships, training, and volunteer opportunities for
students of all academic disciplines and levels. Many of these opportunities
provide invaluable experiences and offer clear-cut paths to exciting careers
with CDC.

Learn More

## Contact CDC-Info

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348 Email CDC-INFO

## CDC Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Accessibility

## Connect With CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Public Health Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

