Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000029.htm    
                                Description: Skin is the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Components of skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000029.htm

# Components of skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200098_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200098_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

Skin is the body's largest organ. About six pounds (about 2.7 kilograms) of
skin cover eighteen square feet (1.67 square meters) on an average adult.

The top layer of skin is called the epidermis. It protects the underlying skin
layers from the outside environment and contains cells that make keratin, a
substance that waterproofs and strengthens the skin. The epidermis also has
cells that contain melanin, the dark pigment that gives skin its color. Other
cells in the epidermis allow us to feel the sensation of touch and provide the
body with immunity against foreign invaders like germs and bacteria.

The very bottom layer of the skin is the hypodermis. It contains the fat
cells, or adipose tissue, that insulate the body and help it conserve heat.
The layer between the epidermis and the hypodermis is the dermis. It contains
the cells that give skin strength, support, and flexibility. As a person ages,
the cells in the dermis lose their strength and flexibility, causing the skin
to lose its youthful appearance.

Located in the dermis are sensory receptors. They allow the body to receive
stimulation from the outside environment and experience pressure, pain, and
temperature. Small blood vessels provide the skin with nutrients, and remove
its waste products.

Sebaceous glands produce the oil in the skin, which keeps it from drying out.
The oil from the sebaceous glands also helps to soften hair and kill bacteria
that get in the skin's pores. These oil glands are all over the body, except
on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Skin Conditions

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

