Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000743.htm    
                                Description: A skin graft is a piece of healthy skin removed from one area of your body to repair damaged or missing skin somewhere else on your body. This skin does not have its own source of blood flow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin flaps and grafts - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000743.htm

# Skin flaps and grafts - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin graft is a piece of healthy skin removed from one area of your body to
repair damaged or missing skin somewhere else on your body. This skin does not
have its own source of blood flow.

Learning how to care for skin flaps and grafts can help them heal more quickly
and reduce scarring.

## Why Skin Flap or Graft Surgery is Performed

A skin flap is healthy skin and tissue that is partly detached and moved to
cover a nearby wound.

    * A skin flap may contain skin and fat, or skin, fat, and muscle.
    * Often, a skin flap is still attached to its original site at one end and remains connected to a blood vessel.
    * Sometimes a flap is moved to a new site and the blood vessel is surgically reconnected. This is called a free flap.

Skin grafts are used to help more serious, larger and deeper wounds heal,
including:

    * Wounds that are too big to heal on their own
    * Burns
    * Skin loss from a serious skin infection
    * Surgery for skin cancer
    * Venous ulcers, pressure ulcers, or diabetic ulcers that DO NOT heal
    * After mastectomy or amputation

The area from where skin is taken is called the donor site. After surgery, you
will have two wounds, the graft or flap itself and the donor site. Donor sites
for grafts and flaps are chosen based on:

    * How closely the skin matches the area of the wound
    * How visible the scar will be from the donor site
    * How close the donor site is to the wound

Often the donor site may be more painful after surgery than the wound due to
newly exposed nerve endings.

## Caring for Skin Flaps and Grafts

You will need to care for the flap or graft site as well as the donor site.
When you come home after surgery, you will have a dressing on your wounds. The
dressing does several things, including:

    * Protect your wound from germs and reduce the risk of infection
    * Protect the area as it heals
    * Soak up any fluids that leak from your wound 

To care for the graft or flap site:

    * You may need to rest for several days after surgery as your wound heals.
    * The type of dressing you have depends on the type of wound and where it is.
    * Keep the dressing and area around it clean and free from dirt or sweat.
    * DO NOT let the dressing get wet.
    * DO NOT touch the dressing. Leave it in place for as long as your doctor recommends (about 4 to 7 days).
    * Take any medicines or pain relievers as directed.
    * If possible, try to elevate the wound so it is above your heart. This helps reduce swelling. You may need to do this while sitting or lying down. You can use pillows to prop up the area.
    * If your doctor says it is OK, you may use an ice pack on the bandage to help with swelling. Ask how often you should apply the ice pack. Be sure to keep the bandage dry.
    * Avoid any movement that might stretch or injure the flap or graft. Avoid hitting or bumping the area.
    * You will need to avoid strenuous exercise for several days. Ask your doctor for how long.
    * If you have a vacuum dressing, you may have a tube attached to the dressing. If the tube falls off, tell your doctor.
    * You will probably see your doctor to have your dressing changed in 4 to 7 days. You may need to have the dressing to your flap or graft site changed by your doctor a couple times over 2 to 3 weeks.
    * As the site heals, you may be able to care for it at home. Your doctor will show you how to care for your wound and apply dressings.
    * The site may become itchy as it heals. DO NOT scratch the wound or pick at it.
    * Apply SPF 30 or higher sunscreen to surgical sites if exposed to the sun. 

To care for the donor site:

    * Leave the dressing in place. Keep it clean and dry.
    * Your doctor will remove the dressing in about 4 to 7 days, or give you instructions for how to remove it.
    * After the dressing is removed, you may be able to leave the wound uncovered. However, if it is in an area that is covered by clothing, you will want to cover the site to protect it. Ask your doctor what type of dressing to use.
    * DO NOT apply any lotions or creams to the wound unless your doctor tells you to. As the area heals, it may itch and scabs may form. DO NOT pick scabs or scratch the wound as it heals. 

## Bathing or Showering

Your doctor will let you know when it is OK to bathe after surgery. Keep in
mind:

    * You may need to take sponge baths for 2 to 3 weeks while your wounds are in the early stages of healing.
    * Once you get the OK to bathe, showers are better than baths because the wound does not soak in water. Soaking your wound could cause it to reopen.
    * Be sure to protect your dressings while you bathe to keep them dry. Your doctor may suggest covering the wound with a plastic bag to keep it dry.
    * If your doctor gives the OK, gently rinse your wound with water as you bathe. Do not rub or scrub the wound. Your doctor may recommend special cleansers to use on your wounds.
    * Gently pat dry the area around your wound with a clean towel. Let the wound air dry.
    * Do not use soaps, lotions, powders, cosmetics, or other skin care products on your wound unless told to do so by your doctor. 

At some point during the healing process, you will not need a dressing
anymore. Your doctor will tell you when you can leave your wound uncovered and
how to care for it.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

    * Pain gets worse or does not improve after taking pain relievers
    * You have bleeding that won't stop after 10 minutes with gentle, direct pressure
    * Your dressing comes loose
    * Edges of the graft or flap start to come up
    * You feel something bulging out of the graft or flap site 

Also call your doctor if you notice signs of an infection, such as:

    * Increased drainage from the wound
    * Drainage becoming thick, tan, green, or yellow, or smells bad (pus)
    * Your temperature is above 100Â°F (37.8Â°C) for more than 4 hours
    * Red streaks appear that lead away from the wound 

## Alternative Names

Autograft - self-care; Skin transplant - self-care; Split-skin graft - self-
care; Full thickness skin graft - self-care; Partial-dermal skin graft - self-
care; FTSG - self-care; STSG - self-care; Local flaps - self-care; Regional
flaps - self-care; Distant flaps - self-care; Free flap - self-care; Skin
autografting - self-care; Pressure ulcer skin flap self-care; Burns skin flap
self-care; Skin ulcer skin graft self-care

## References

Acosta AE, Aasi SZ, MacNeal RJ, Messingham MJ, Arpey CJ. Skin grafting. In:
Robinson JK, Hanke CW, Siegel DM, Fratila A, Bhatia AC, Rohrer TE, eds.
_Surgery of the Skin: Procedural Dermatology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 19.

McGrath MH, Pomerantz JH. Plastic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
68.

Wysong A, Higgins S. Basic principles in flap reconstruction. In: Rohrer TE,
Cook JL, Kaufman AJ, eds. _Flaps and Grafts in Dermatologic Surgery_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Skin Conditions
    * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

