Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003281.htm    
                                Description: Skin turgor is the skin    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin turgor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003281.htm

# Skin turgor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Skin turgor is the skin's elasticity. It is the ability of skin to change
shape and return to normal.

## Considerations

Skin turgor is a sign of fluid loss (dehydration). Diarrhea or vomiting can
cause fluid loss. Infants and young children with these conditions can rapidly
lose lot of fluid, if they do not take enough water. Fever speeds up this
process.

To check for skin turgor, the health care provider grasps the skin betweenÂ
two fingers so that it is tented up. Commonly on the lower arm or abdomen is
checked. The skin is held for a few seconds then released.

Skin with normal turgor snaps rapidly back to its normal position. Skin with
poor turgor takes time to return to its normal position.

Lack of skin turgor occurs with moderate to severe fluid loss. Mild
dehydration is when fluid loss of 5% of the body weight. Moderate dehydration
is 10% loss and severe dehydration is 15% or more loss of body weight.

Edema is a condition where fluid builds up in the tissues and causes swelling.
This causes the skin to be extremely difficult to pinch up.

## Causes

Common causes of poor skin turgor are:

    * Decreased fluid intake
    * Dehydration
    * Diarrhea
    * Diabetes
    * Extreme weight loss
    * Heat exhaustion (excessive sweating without enough fluid intake)
    * Vomiting 

Connective tissue disorders such as scleroderma and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome can
affect the elasticity of the skin. These connective tissue disorders do not
have to do with fluids.

## Home Care

You can quickly check for dehydration at home. Pinch the skin over the back of
the hand, on the abdomen, or over the front of the chest under the collarbone.
This will show skin turgor.

Mild dehydration will cause the skin to be slightly slow in its return to
normal. To rehydrate, drink more fluids -- particularly water.

Severe turgor indicates moderate or severe fluid loss. See your provider right
away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Poor skin turgor occurs with vomiting, diarrhea, or fever.
    * The skin is very slow to return to normal, or the skin "tents" up during a check. This can indicate severe dehydration that needs quick treatment.
    * You have reduced skin turgor and are unable to increase your intake of fluids (for example, because of vomiting). 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your medical
history, including:

    * How long have you had symptoms?
    * What other symptoms came before the change in skin turgor (vomiting, diarrhea, others)?
    * What have you done to try to treat the condition?
    * Are there things that make the condition better or worse?
    * What other symptoms do you have (such as dry lips, decreased urine output, and decreased tearing)? 

Tests that may be performed:

    * Blood chemistry (such as a chem-20)
    * CBC
    * Urinalysis

You may need intravenous fluids for severe fluid loss. You may need medicines
to treat other causes of poor skin turgor and elasticity.

## Alternative Names

Doughy skin; Poor skin turgor; Good skin turgor; Decreased skin turgor

## Images

    * ![Skin turgor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17223t.jpg)Skin turgor

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Skin, hair, and nails.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.

Gorgas DL, McGrath JL. Vital signs measurement. In: Roberts JR, ed. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 1.

Greenbaum LA. Deficit therapy. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 57.

Tong IL. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:431-431.

Van Mater HA, Rabinovich CE. Scleroderma and Raynaud phenomenon. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 160.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

