Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000848.htm    
                                Description: A cutaneous skin tag is a common skin growth. Most of the time, it is harmless.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cutaneous skin tag

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000848.htm

# Cutaneous skin tag

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cutaneous skin tag is a common skin growth. Most of the time, it is
harmless.

## Causes

A cutaneous tag most often occurs in older adults. They are more common in
people who are overweight or who have diabetes. They are thought to occur from
skin rubbing against skin.

## Symptoms

The tag sticks out of the skin and may have a short, narrow stalk connecting
it to the surface of the skin. Some skin tags are as long as a half an inch (1
centimeter). Most skin tags are the same color as skin, or a little darker.

In most cases, a skin tag is painless and does not grow or change. However, it
may become irritated from rubbing by clothing or other materials.

Places where skin tags occur include:

    * Neck
    * Underarms
    * Middle of the body, or under folds of skin
    * Eyelids
    * Inner thighs
    * Other body areas 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can diagnose this condition by looking at your skin.
Sometimes a skin biopsy is done.

## Treatment

Treatment is often not needed. Your provider may recommend treatment if the
skin tag is irritating, or you don't like how it looks. Treatment may include:

    * Surgery to remove it
    * Freezing it (cryotherapy)
    * Burning it offÂ (cauterization) 
    * Tying string or dental floss around it to cut off the blood supply so that it will eventually fall off  

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A skin tag is most often harmless (benign). It may become irritated if
clothing rubs against it. In most cases, the growth usually does not grow back
after it is removed. However, new skin tags may form on other parts of the
body.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if the skin tag changes, or if you want it removed. Do not
cut it yourself, because it can bleed a lot.

## Alternative Names

Skin tag; Acrochordon; Fibroepithelial polyp

## Images

    * ![Skin tag](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9902t.jpg)Skin tag

## References

Habif TP. Benign skin tumors. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Dermal and
subcutaneous tumors. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus
IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 28.

Pfenninger JL. Approach to various skin lesions. In: Fowler GC, ed.
_Pfenninger and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 13.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

