Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000872.htm    
                                Description: Lichen simplex chronicusÂ (LSC) is a skin condition caused by chronic itching and scratching.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lichen simplex chronicus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000872.htm

# Lichen simplex chronicus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lichen simplex chronicusÂ (LSC) is a skin condition caused by chronic itching
and scratching.

## Causes

LSC may occur in people who have:

    * Skin allergies
    * Eczema (atopic dermatitis)
    * Psoriasis
    * Nervousness, anxiety, depression, and other emotional problems 

The problem is common in adults but may also be seen in children.

## Symptoms

LSC leads to scratching, which then causes more itching. It often follows this
pattern:

    * It may start when something rubs, irritates, or scratches the skin, such as clothing.
    * The person begins to rub or scratch the itchy area. Constant scratching (often during sleep) causes the skin to thicken.
    * The thickened skin itches, and this leads to more scratching. This then causes more thickening of the skin.
    * The skin may become leathery and brownish in the affected area.

Symptoms include:

    * Itching of the skin that may be long-term (chronic), intense, and that increases with stress
    * Leathery texture to skin
    * Raw areas of skin
    * Scaling
    * Skin lesion, patch, or plaque with sharp borders and a leathery texture, located on the ankle, wrist, back of the neck, rectum, anal area, forearms, thighs, lower leg, back of the knee, and inner elbow

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your skin and ask if you have hadÂ
chronic itching and scratching in the past. A skin lesion biopsy may be done
to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

The main treatment is to reduce the itch.

You may need to use these medicines on your skin:

    * Lotion or steroid cream on the area to calm itching and irritation
    * Numbing medicine
    * Peeling ointments containing salicylic acid, lactic acid, or urea on patches of thick skin

You may need to use dressings that moisturize, cover, and protect the area.
These may be used with or without medicated creams. They are left in place for
a week or more at a time. Wearing cotton gloves at night may prevent skin
damage from scratching.

To control itching and stress you may need to take medicines by mouth, such
as:

    * Antihistamines
    * Other oral medicines that control itch or pain

Steroids may be injected directly into the skin patches to reduce itching and
irritation.

You may need to take antidepressants and tranquilizers if the cause of your
itching is emotional. Other measures include:

    * Counseling to help you realize the importance of not scratching
    * Stress management
    * Behavior modification

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You can control LSC by reducing itch and controlling scratching. The condition
may return or move to different areas on the skin.

## Possible Complications

These complications of LSC can occur:

    * Bacterial and fungal skin infection
    * Permanent changes in skin color
    * Permanent scar

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Symptoms get worse
    * You develop new symptoms, especially signs of skin infection such as pain, redness, drainage from the area, or fever 

## Alternative Names

LSC; Neurodermatitis circumscripta

## Images

    * ![Lichen simplex chronicus on the ankle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1562t.jpg)Lichen simplex chronicus on the ankle
    * ![Lichen simplex chronicus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2494t.jpg)Lichen simplex chronicus
    * ![Lichen simplex chronicus on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2495t.jpg)Lichen simplex chronicus on the back

## References

Habif TP. Eczema and hand dermatitis. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology:
A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 3.

Renzi M, Sommer LL, Baker DJ. Lichen simplex chronicus. In: Lebwohl MG,
Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease:
Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier,
2018:chap 137.

Zug KA. Eczema. In: Habif TP, Dinulos JGH, Chapman MS, Zug KA, eds. _Skin
Disease: Diagnosis and Treatment_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 2.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![PicazÃ³n](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Itching2_thumb.jpg)Itching _Read
more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

