Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003279.htm    
                                Description: Skin lumps are any abnormal bumps or swellings on or under the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin lumps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003279.htm

# Skin lumps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Skin lumps are any abnormal bumps or swellings on or under the skin.

## Considerations

Most lumps and swellings are benign (not cancerous) and are harmless,
especially the kind that feel soft and roll easily under the fingers (such as
lipomas and cysts).

A lump or swelling that appears suddenly (over 24 to 48 hours) and is painful
is usually caused by an injury or an infection.

## Causes

Common causes of skin lumps include:

    * Lipomas, which are fatty lumps under the skin
    * Enlarged lymph glands, usually in the armpits, neck, and groin
    * Cyst, a closed sac in or under the skin that is lined with skin tissue and contains fluid or semisolid material
    * Benign skin growths such as seborrheic keratoses or neurofibromas
    * Boils, painful, red bumps usually involving an infected hair follicle or group of follicles
    * Corn or callus, caused by skin thickening in response to continued pressure (for example, from shoes) and usually occurring on a toe or foot
    * Warts, caused by a virus that develops a rough, hard bump, usually appearing on a hand or foot and often with tiny black dots in the bump
    * Moles, skin-colored, tan, or brown bumps on the skin
    * Abscess, infected fluid and pus trapped in a closed space from which it cannot escape
    * Cancer of the skin (colored or pigmented spot that bleeds easily, changes size or shape, or crusts and does not heal) 

## Home Care

Skin lumps from an injury can be treated with rest, ice, compression, and
elevation. Most other lumps should be looked at by your health care provider
before you try any home treatments.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if there is any unexplained lump or swelling.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms,
including:

    * Where is the lump?
    * When did you first notice it?
    * Is it painful or growing larger?
    * Is it bleeding or draining?
    * Is there more than one lump?
    * Is it painful?
    * What does the lump look like?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

Your provider may prescribe antibiotics if you have an infection. If cancer is
suspected or the provider cannot make a diagnosis by looking at the lump, a
biopsy or an imaging test may be done.

## Images

    * ![Warts, multiple - on hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1041t.jpg)Warts, multiple - on hands
    * ![Lipoma - arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1209t.jpg)Lipoma - arm
    * ![Warts - flat on the cheek and neck](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1511t.jpg)Warts - flat on the cheek and neck
    * ![Wart \(verruca\) with a cutaneous horn on the toe](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2382t.jpg)Wart (verruca) with a cutaneous horn on the toe
    * ![Skin lumps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9896t.jpg)Skin lumps

## References

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Dermal and subcutaneous tumors. In: James WD,
Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical
Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 28.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Skin problems. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds.
_Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

