Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003223.htm    
                                Description: Intertrigo is inflammation of the skin folds. It tends to occur in warm, moist areas of the body where two skin surfaces rub or press against each other. Such areas are called intertriginous areas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intertrigo

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003223.htm

# Intertrigo

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intertrigo is inflammation of the skin folds. It tends to occur in warm, moist
areas of the body where two skin surfaces rub or press against each other.
Such areas are called intertriginous areas.

## Causes

Intertrigo affects the top layers of skin. It is caused by moisture, bacteria,
or fungus in the folds of the skin. Bright red, well-defined weeping patches
and plaques are seen in the folds of the neck, armpits, elbow pits, groin,
finger and toe webs, or backs of the knees. If the skin is very moist, it may
begin to break down. In severe cases, there may be a bad odor.

The condition is most common in people who are obese. It may also occur in
people who must stay in bed or who wear medical devices such as artificial
limbs, splints, and braces. These devices may trap moisture against the skin.

Intertrigo is common in warm, moist climates.

## Home Care

It may help to lose weight and change your body position often.

Other things you can do are:

    * Separate skin folds with dry towels.
    * Blow a fan on moist areas.
    * Wear loose clothing and moisture-wicking fabrics. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * The condition does not go away, even with good home care.
    * The area of affected skinÂ spreads beyond a skin fold.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider can usually tell if you have the condition by looking at your
skin.

Other tests may include:

    * A skin scraping and a test called a KOH examination to rule out a fungal infection
    * Looking at your skin with a special lamp called a Wood's lamp, to rule out a bacterial infection called erythrasma
    * In rare cases, a skin biopsy is needed to confirm the diagnosis 

Treatment options for intertrigo include:

    * Antibiotic or antifungal cream applied to the skin
    * Drying medicine, such as Domeboro soaks
    * Low-dose steroid cream or immune modulating cream may be used
    * Creams that protect the skin 

## References

Habif TP. Superficial fungal infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Bacterial infections.
In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews'
Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 14.

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Skin disorders caused by fungi. In: Paller AS, Mancini
AJ, eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric Dermatology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

