Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000918.htm    
                                Description: A skin lesion is an area of the skin that is different from the surrounding skin. This can be a lump, sore, or an area of skin that is not normal. It may also be a skin cancer or a noncancerous (benign)    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin lesion removal - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000918.htm

# Skin lesion removal - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin lesion is an area of the skin that is different from the surrounding
skin. This can be a lump, sore, or an area of skin that is not normal. It may
also be a skin cancer or a noncancerous (benign) tumor.

You have had a skin lesion removal. This is a procedure to remove the lesion
for examination by a pathologist or to prevent recurrence of the lesion.

You may have sutures or just a small open wound.

It is important to take care of the site. This helps prevent infection and
allows the wound to heal properly.

## How to Care for Stitches

Stitches are special threads that are sewn through the skin at an injury site
to bring the edges of a wound together. Care for your stitches and wound as
follows:

    * Keep the area dry for the first 48 hours after stitches have been placed.
    * Gently wash around the site with cool water and soap. Clean as close to the stitches as you can. Avoid washing or rubbing the stitches directly and avoid putting tension on the area.
    * Dry the site with a clean paper towel. Avoid using the towel directly on the stitches.
    * If there was a bandage over the stitches, replace it with a new clean bandage.
    * After 3 days, remove the bandage unless the health care provider told you otherwise. Allow the wound to be exposed to the open air.
    * Keep the site clean and dry by washing it 1 to 2 times daily.
    * Your provider should tell you when to come back to get the stitches removed. If not, contact your provider. 

## How to Care for an Open Wound

If your provider does not close your wound again with sutures, you need to
care for it at home. The wound will heal from the bottom up to the top.

You may be asked to keep a dressing over the wound, or your provider may
suggest leaving the wound open to air.

Keep the site clean and dry by washing it once a day. You will want to prevent
a crust from forming or being pulled off. To do this:

    * Your provider may suggest using petroleum jelly or an antibiotic ointment on the wound.
    * If there is a dressing and it sticks to the wound, wet it and try again, unless yourÂ provider instructed you to pull it off dry. 

DO NOT use skin cleansers, alcohol, peroxide, iodine, or soap with
antibacterial chemicals. These can damage the wound tissue and slow healing.

## After Cryotherapy

The treated area may look red afterwards. A blister will often form within a
few hours. It may appear clear or have a red or purple color.

You may have a little pain for up to 3 days.

Most of the time, no special care is needed during healing. The area should be
washed gently once or twice a day and kept clean. A bandage or dressing should
only be needed if the area rubs against clothes or may be easily injured.

A scab forms and will usually peel away within 1 to 3 weeks, depending on the
area treated.

## Important Tips

The following tips may help:

    * Prevent the wound from re-opening by keeping strenuous activity to a minimum.
    * Make sure your hands are clean when you care for the wound.
    * If the wound is on your scalp, it is OK to shampoo and wash. Be gentle and avoid a lot of exposure to water.
    * Take proper care of your wound to prevent further scarring.
    * You can take pain medicine, such as acetaminophen, as directed for pain at the wound site. Ask your provider about other pain medicines (such as aspirin or ibuprofen) to make sure they will not cause bleeding.
    * Follow-up with your provider to make sure the wound is healing properly.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if:

    * There is any redness, pain, or yellow pus around the injury. This could mean there is an infection.
    * There is bleeding at the injury site that will not stop after 10 minutes of direct pressure.
    * You have a fever greater than 100Â°F (37.8Â°C).
    * There is pain at the site that will not go away, even after taking pain medicine.
    * The wound has split open.
    * Your stitches or staples have come out too soon.

After full healing has taken place, call your provider if the skin lesion does
not appear to be gone.

## Alternative Names

Shave excision - skin aftercare; Excision of skin lesions - benign aftercare;
Skin lesion removal - benign aftercare; Cryosurgery - skin aftercare; BCC -
removal aftercare; Basal cell cancer - removal aftercare; Actinic keratosis -
removal aftercare; Wart -removal aftercare; Squamous cell-removal aftercare;
Mole - removal aftercare; Nevus - removal aftercare; Nevi - removal aftercare;
Scissor excision aftercare; Skin tag removal aftercare; Mole removal
aftercare; Skin cancer removal aftercare; Birthmark removal aftercare;
Molluscum contagiosum - removal aftercare; Electrodesiccation - skin lesion
removal aftercare

## References

Habif TP. Dermatologic surgical procedures. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Levin Y, Brown KL, Phillips TJ. Wound healing and its impact on dressings and
postoperative care. In: Robinson JK, Hanke CW, Siegel DM, Fratila A, Bhatia
AC, Rohrer TE, eds. _Surgery of the Skin: Procedural Dermatology_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 8.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Skin Conditions

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

