Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000742.htm    
                                Description: Ischemic ulcers (wounds) can occur when there is poor blood flow in your legs. Ischemic means reduced blood flow to an area of the body. Poor blood flow causes cells to die and damages tissue. Most ischemic    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ischemic ulcers - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000742.htm

# Ischemic ulcers - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ischemic ulcers (wounds) can occur when there is poor blood flow in your legs.
Ischemic means reduced blood flow to an area of the body. Poor blood flow
causes cells to die and damages tissue. Most ischemic ulcers occur on the feet
and legs. These types of wounds can be slow to heal.

## Causes

Clogged arteries (atherosclerosis) are the most common cause of ischemic
ulcers.

    * Clogged arteries prevent a healthy supply of blood from flowing to the legs. This means that the tissues in your legs do not get enough nutrients and oxygen.
    * The lack of nutrients causes cells to die, damaging the tissue.
    * Damaged tissue that does not get enough blood flow also tends to heal more slowly. 

Conditions in which the skin becomes inflamed and fluid builds up in the legs
can also cause ischemic ulcers.

People with poor blood flow often also have nerve damage or foot ulcers from
diabetes. Nerve damage makes it harder to feel an area in the shoe that rubs
and causes a sore. Once a sore forms, poor blood flow makes it harder for the
sore to heal.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of ischemic ulcers include:

    * Wounds may appear on legs, ankles, toes, and between toes.
    * Dark red, yellow, gray, or black sores.
    * Raised edges around the wound (looks punched out).
    * No bleeding.
    * Deep wound through which tendons may show through.
    * Wound may or may not be painful.
    * Skin on the leg appears shiny, tight, dry, and hairless.
    * Dangling the leg down off the side of a bed or chair causes the leg to turn red.
    * When you raise the leg it turns pale and cool to touch.
    * Aching pain in the foot or leg, often at night. Pain may go away when the leg is dangled down.

## Who is At Risk?

Anyone with poor circulation is at risk for ischemic wounds. Other conditions
that can cause ischemic wounds include:

    * Diseases that cause inflammation, such as lupus
    * High blood pressure
    * High cholesterol levels
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Blockage of the lymph vessels, which causes fluid to build up in the legs
    * Smoking 

## Wound Care

To treat an ischemic ulcer, blood flow to your legs needs to be restored. You
may need to take medicine. In some cases, you may need surgery.

Your health care provider will show you how to care for your wound. The basic
instructions are:

    * Always keep the wound clean and bandaged to prevent infection.
    * Your provider will tell you how often you need to change the dressing.
    * Keep the dressing and the skin around it dry. Try not to get healthy tissue around the wound too wet. This can soften the health tissue, causing the wound to get bigger.
    * Before applying a dressing, clean the wound thoroughly according to your provider's instructions.
    * You may be able to change your own dressing, or family members may be able to help. A visiting nurse may also help you. 

## Prevention

If you are at risk for ischemic ulcers, taking these steps may help prevent
problems:

    * Check your feet and legs every day. Check the tops and bottoms, ankles, heels, and between your toes. Look for changes in color and red or sore areas.
    * Wear shoes that fit properly and do not rub or put pressure on your feet. Wear socks that fit. Socks that are too big can bunch up in your shoes and cause rubbing or the skin, which can lead to a sore.
    * Try not to sit or stand too long in one position.
    * Protect your feet from the cold.
    * DO NOT walk barefoot. Protect your feet from injury.
    * DO NOT wear compression stockings or wraps unless told to by your provider. These may restrict blood flow.
    * DO NOT soak your feet in hot water.

Certain lifestyle changes can help prevent ischemic ulcers. If you have a
wound, taking these steps can improve blood flow and aid healing.

    * Quit smoking. Smoking can lead to clogged arteries.
    * If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar level under control. This will help you heal faster.
    * Exercise as much as you can. Staying active can help with blood flow.
    * Eat healthy foods and get plenty of sleep at night.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * Manage your blood pressure and cholesterol levels.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if there are any signs of infection, such as:

    * Redness, increased warmth, or swelling around the wound
    * More drainage than before or drainage that is yellowish or cloudy
    * Bleeding
    * Odor
    * Fever or chills
    * Increased pain

## Alternative Names

Arterial ulcers - self-care; Arterial insufficiency ulcer self-care; Ischemic
wounds - self-care; Peripheral artery disease - ulcer; Peripheral vascular
disease - ulcer; PVD - ulcer; PAD - ulcer

## References

Hafner A, Sprecher E. Ulcers. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 105.

Leong M, Murphy KD, Phillips LG. Wound healing. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 6.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Wound care and
dressings. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 4/5/2018

Updated by: Michael Sobel, MD, Professor of Vascular Surgery, University of
Washington, Seattle. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Leg Injuries and Disorders
    * Peripheral Arterial Disease
    * Skin Conditions

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

