Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001478.htm    
                                Description: Livedo reticularis (LR) is a skin symptom. It refers to a netlike pattern of reddish-blue skin discoloration. The legs are often affected. The condition is linked to swollen blood vessels. It may get worse    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Livedo reticularis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001478.htm

# Livedo reticularis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Livedo reticularis (LR) is a skin symptom. It refers to a netlike pattern of
reddish-blue skin discoloration. The legs are often affected. The condition is
linked to swollen blood vessels. It may get worse when the temperature is
cold.

## Causes

As blood flows through the body, arteries are the blood vessels that carry
blood away from the heart and veins carry blood back to the heart. The skin
discoloration pattern of LR results from veins in the skin that are filled
with more blood than normal. This can be caused by any of the following:

    * Enlarged veins
    * Blocked blood flow leaving the veins

There are two forms of LR: primary and secondary. Secondary LR is also known
as livedo racemosa.

With primary LR, exposure to cold, tobacco use, or emotional upset can lead
the skin discoloration. Women 20 to 50 years old are most affected.

Many different diseases are associated with secondary LR, including:

    * Congenital (present at birth)
    * As a reaction to certain medicines such as amantadine or interferon
    * Other blood vessel diseases such as polyarteritis nodosa and Raynaud phenomenon
    * Diseases that involve the blood such as abnormal proteins or high risk of developing blood clots such as antiphospholipid syndrome
    * Infections such as hepatitis C
    * Paralysis

## Symptoms

In most cases, LR affects the legs. Sometimes, the face, trunk, buttocks,
hands and feet are involved as well. Usually, there is no pain. However, if
blood flow is completely blocked, pain and skin ulcers can develop.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will ask about your symptoms.

Blood tests or a skin biopsy may be done to help diagnose any underlying
health problem.

## Treatment

For primary LR:

    * Keeping warm, especially the legs, may help relieve the skin discoloration.
    * Do not smoke.
    * Avoid stressful situations.
    * If you are uncomfortable with the appearance of your skin, talk to your provider about treatment, such as taking medicines that can help with the skin discoloration.

For secondary LR, treatment depends on the underlying disease. For example, if
blood clots are the problem, your provider may suggest that you try taking
blood thinning drugs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In many cases, primary LR improves or disappears with age. For LR due to an
underlying disease, outlook depends on how well the disease is treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have LR and think it may be due to an underlying
disease.

## Prevention

Primary LR can be prevented by:

    * Staying warm in cold temperatures
    * Avoiding tobacco
    * Avoiding emotional stress

## Alternative Names

Cutis marmorata; Livedo reticularis - idiopathic; Sneddon syndrome -
idiopathic livedo reticularis; Livedo racemosa

## Images

    * ![Livedo reticularis - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2524t.jpg)Livedo reticularis - close-up
    * ![Livedo reticularis on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2525t.jpg)Livedo reticularis on the legs

## References

Jaff MR, Bartholomew JR. Other peripheral arterial diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 80.

Patterson JW. The vasculopathic reaction pattern. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2016:chap 8.

Sangle SR, D'Cruz DP. Livedo reticularis: an enigma. _Isr Med Assoc J_.
2015;17(2):104-107. PMID: 26223086 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26223086.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

