Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001469.htm    
                                Description: Ectodermal dysplasias is a group of conditions in which there is abnormal development of the skin, hair, nails, teeth, or sweat glands.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ectodermal dysplasias

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001469.htm

# Ectodermal dysplasias

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ectodermal dysplasias is a group of conditions in which there is abnormal
development of the skin, hair, nails, teeth, or sweat glands.

## Causes

There are many different types of ectodermal dysplasias. Each type of
dysplasia is caused by specific mutations in certain genes. Dysplasia means
abnormal development of cells or tissues. The most common form of ectodermal
dysplasia usually affects men. Other forms of the disease affect men and women
equally.

## Symptoms

People with ectodermal dysplasia may not sweat or sweat less than normal
because of a lack of sweat glands.

In children with the disease, their bodies may have a problem controlling
fevers. Even a mild illness can produce an extremely high fever, because the
skin cannot sweat and control temperature properly.

Affected adults are unable to tolerate a warm environment and need measures,
such as air conditioning, to keep a normal body temperature.

Depending on which genes are affected, other symptoms may include:

    * Abnormal nails
    * Abnormal or missing teeth, or fewer than normal number of teeth
    * Cleft lip
    * Decreased skin color (pigment)
    * Large forehead
    * Low nasal bridge
    * Thin, sparse hair
    * Learning disabilities
    * Poor hearing
    * Poor vision with decreased tear production
    * Weakened immune system 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Biopsy of the mucous membranes
    * Biopsy of the skin
    * Genetic testing (available for some types of this disorder)
    * X-rays of the teeth or bones may be done

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for this disorder. Instead, symptoms are
treated as needed.

Things you can do may include:

    * Wear a wig and dentures to improve appearance.
    * Use artificial tears to prevent drying of the eyes.
    * Use saline nose spray to remove debris and prevent infection.
    * Take cooling water baths or use water sprays to keep a normal body temperature (water evaporating from the skin replaces the cooling function of sweat evaporating from the skin.) 

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on ectodermal dysplasias:

    * Ectodermal Dysplasia Society -- www.ectodermaldysplasia.org
    * National Foundation for Ectodermal Dysplasias -- www.nfed.org
    * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/6317/ectodermal-dysplasia

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If you have a common variant of ectodermal dysplasia this will not shorten
your lifespan. However, you may need to pay attention to temperature changes
and other problems associated with this condition.

## Possible Complications

If untreated, health problems from this condition may include:

    * Brain damage caused by increased body temperature
    * Seizures caused by high fever (febrile seizures) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if your child shows
symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

If you have a family history of ectodermal dysplasia and you are planning to
have children, genetic counseling is recommended. In many cases, it is
possible to diagnose ectodermal dysplasia while the baby is still in the womb.

## Alternative Names

Anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia; Christ-Siemens-Touraine syndrome; Anondontia;
Incontinentia pigmenti

## Images

    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Abidi NY, Martin KL. Ectodermal dysplasias. In: Kliegman RM, St Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 668.

Narendran V. The skin of the neonate. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC,
eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 94.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

