Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001455.htm    
                                Description: Perioral dermatitis is a skin disorder resembling acne or rosacea. In most cases, it involves tiny red pumps that form on the lower half of the face in the folds of the nose and around the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Perioral dermatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001455.htm

# Perioral dermatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Perioral dermatitis is a skin disorder resembling acne or rosacea. In most
cases, it involves tiny red pumps that form on the lower half of the face in
the folds of the nose and around the mouth.

## Causes

The exact cause of perioral dermatitis is unknown. It may occur after using
face creams containing steroids for another condition.

Young women are most likely to get this condition. This condition is also
common in children.

Periorificial dermatitis may be brought on by:

    * Topical steroids, either when they are applied to the face on purpose or by accident
    * Nasal steroids, steroid inhalers, and oral steroids
    * Cosmetic creams, make-ups and sunscreens
    * Fluorinated toothpaste
    * Failing to wash the face
    * Hormonal changes or oral contraceptives

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Burning feeling around the mouth. The creases between the nose and mouth are most affected.
    * Bumps around the mouth that may be filled with fluid or pus.
    * A similar rash may appear around the eyes, nose, or forehead. 

The rash may be mistaken for acne.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your skin to diagnose the condition.
You may need to have other tests to find out if it is due to a bacterial
infection.

## Treatment

Self-care you may want to try include:

    * Stop using all face creams, cosmetics, and sunscreen.
    * Wash your face with warm water only.
    * After the rash has cleared, ask your provider to recommend a non-soap bar or a liquid cleanser. 

DO NOT use any over-the-counter steroid creams to treat this condition. If you
were taking steroid creams, your provider may tell you to stop the cream. They
may also prescribe a less potent steroid cream and then slowly withdraw it.

Treatment may include medicines placed on the skin such as:

    * Metronidazole
    * Erythromycin
    * Benzoyl peroxide
    * Tacrolimus
    * Clindamycin
    * Pimecrolimus
    * Sodium sulfacetamide with sulfur 

You may need to take antibiotic pills if the condition is severe. Antibiotics
used to treat this condition include tetracycline, doxycycline, minocycline,
or erythromycin.

At times, treatment may be needed for up to 6 to 12 weeks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Perioral dermatitis requires several months of treatment.

Bumps may return. However, the condition does not come back after treatment in
most cases. The rash is more likely to return if you apply skin creams that
contain steroids.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice red bumps around your mouth that do not go
away.

## Prevention

Avoid using skin creams containing steroids on your face, unless directed by
your provider.

## Alternative Names

Periorificial dermatitis

## Images

    * ![Perioral dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2395t.jpg)Perioral dermatitis

## References

Habif TP. Acne, rosacea, and related disorders. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Acne. In: James WD,
Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the
Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
13.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

