Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cardiacarrest.html    
                                Description: In cardiac arrest, an irregular heart rhythm causes the heart to stop beating. Without quick treatment, it causes sudden cardiac death. Find out more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cardiac Arrest

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cardiacarrest.html

#  Cardiac Arrest

Also called: SCA, Sudden cardiac death

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

The heart has an internal electrical system that controls the rhythm of the
heartbeat. Problems can cause abnormal heart rhythms, called arrhythmias.
There are many types of arrhythmia. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat
too fast, too slow, or it can stop beating. Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) occurs
when the heart develops an arrhythmia that causes it to stop beating. This is
different than a heart attack, where the heart usually continues to beat but
blood flow to the heart is blocked.

There are many possible causes of SCA. They include coronary heart disease,
physical stress, and some inherited disorders. Sometimes there is no known
cause for the SCA.

Without medical attention, the person will die within a few minutes. People
are less likely to die if they have early defibrillation. Defibrillation sends
an electric shock to restore the heart rhythm to normal. You should give
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to a person having SCA until
defibrillation can be done.

If you have had an SCA, an implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) reduces the
chance of dying from a second SCA.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

    * About Cardiac Arrest (American Heart Association)
    * Sudden Cardiac Arrest (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Sudden Cardiac Arrest? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Catheter Ablation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Causes of Cardiac Arrest (American Heart Association)
    * Warning Signs of Heart Attack, Stroke and Cardiac Arrest (American Heart Association)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Automated External Defibrillators: Do You Need an AED? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * CPR: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Defibrillators ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Related Issues

    * Coronary Artery Anomalies (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Heart Attack or Sudden Cardiac Arrest: How Are They Different? (American Heart Association)
    * How Devices in Public Places Can Restart Hearts (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
    * Ventricular Fibrillation (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

    * Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) Risk Assessment (Heart Rhythm Society)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Death, Sudden, Cardiac ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Heart Arrest ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The effectiveness of a focused rapid response team on reducing the...
    * Article: The global survival rate among adult out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patients who...
    * Article: Epinephrine in pediatric cardiorespiratory arrest: when and how much?
    * Cardiac Arrest -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia (American Heart Association)
    * How the Heart Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

    * American Heart Association
    * Find a course (American Heart Association)
    * Heart Rhythm Society
    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Teenagers

    * Sudden Death in Young People--Heart Problems Often Blamed (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cardiac arrest (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cardiac Arrest](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CardiacArrest.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cardiac arrest

## Related Health Topics

    * Arrhythmia
    * CPR
    * Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cardiac Arrest is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 23 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 19 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

