Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003215.htm    
                                Description: A bluish color to the skin or mucous membrane is usually due to a lack of oxygen in the blood. The medical term is cyanosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blue discoloration of the skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003215.htm

# Blue discoloration of the skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bluish color to the skin or mucous membrane is usually due to a lack of
oxygen in the blood. The medical term is cyanosis.

## Considerations

Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. Most of the time, nearly all
red blood cells in the arteries carry a full supply of oxygen. These blood
cells are bright red and the skin is pinkish or red.

Blood that has lost its oxygen is dark bluish-red. People whose blood is low
in oxygen tend to have a bluish color to their skin. This condition is called
cyanosis.

Depending on the cause, cyanosis may develop suddenly, along with shortness of
breath and other symptoms.

Cyanosis that is caused by long-term heart or lung problems may develop
slowly. Symptoms may be present, but are often not severe.

When the oxygen level has dropped only a small amount, cyanosis may be hard to
detect.

In dark-skinned people, cyanosis may be easier to see in the mucous membranes
(lips, gums, around the eyes) and nails.

People with cyanosis do not normally have anemia (low blood count). Anemia is
a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells.

## Causes

Cyanosis that is seen in only one part of the body may be due to:

    * A blood clot that blocks the blood supply to a leg, foot, hand, or arm
    * Raynaud phenomenon (condition in which cold temperatures or strong emotions cause blood vessel spasms, which block blood flow to the fingers, toes, ears, and nose) 

LACK OF OXYGEN IN THE BLOOD

Most cyanosis occurs because of a lack of oxygen in the blood. This can be
caused by the following problems.

Problems with the lungs:

    * Blood clot in the arteries of the lungs (pulmonary embolism)
    * Drowning or near-drowning
    * High altitude
    * Infection in the smallest air passages in the lungs of children, called bronchiolitis
    * Long-term lung problems that become more severe, such as COPD, asthma, and interstitial lung disease
    * Pneumonia (severe) 

Problems with the airways leading to the lungs:

    * Breath-holding (although this is exceedingly difficult to do)
    * Choking on something stuck in the airways
    * Swelling around the vocal cords (croup)
    * Inflammation of the tissue (epiglottis) that covers the windpipe (epiglottitis) 

Problems with the heart:

    * Heart defects that are present at birth (congenital)
    * Heart failure
    * Heart stops working (cardiac arrest) 

Other problems:

    * Drug overdose (narcotics, benzodiazepines, sedatives)
    * Exposure to cold air or water
    * Seizure that lasts a long time
    * Toxins such as cyanide 

## Home Care

For cyanosis caused by exposure to cold or Raynaud phenomenon, dress warmly
when going outside or stay in a well-heated room.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Bluish skin can be a sign of many serious medical problems. Call or visit your
health care provider.

For adults, call your doctor or 911 if you have bluish skin and any of the
following:

    * You cannot get a deep breath or your breathing is getting harder, or faster
    * Need to lean forward when sitting to breathe
    * Are using muscles around the ribs to get enough air
    * Have chest pain
    * Are having headaches more often than usual
    * Feel sleepy or confused
    * Have a fever
    * Are coughing up dark mucus

For children, call the doctor or 911 if your child has bluish skin and any of
the following:

    * Hard time breathing
    * Chest muscles moving in with each breath
    * Breathing faster than 50 to 60 breaths per minute (when not crying)
    * Making a grunting noise
    * Sitting with shoulders hunched over
    * Is very tired
    * Is not moving around much
    * Has a limp or floppy body
    * Nostrils are flaring out when breathing
    * Does not feel like eating
    * Is irritable
    * Has trouble sleeping 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical examination. This will include listening
to your breathing and heart sounds. In emergency situations (such as shock),
you will be stabilized first.

The provider will ask about your symptoms. Questions may include:

    * When did the bluish skin develop? Did it come on slowly or suddenly?
    * Is your body blue all over? How about your lips or nailbeds?
    * Have you been exposed to cold or gone to a high altitude?
    * Do you have trouble breathing? Do you have a cough or chest pain?
    * Do you have ankle, foot, or leg swelling? 

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Arterial blood gas analysis
    * Blood oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry
    * Chest x-ray
    * Chest CT scan
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * ECG
    * Echocardiogram (ultrasound of the heart) 

The treatment you receive depends on the cause of cyanosis. For example, you
may receive oxygen for shortness of breath.

## Alternative Names

Lips - bluish; Fingernails - bluish; Cyanosis; Bluish lips and fingernails;
Bluish skin

## Images

    * ![Cyanosis of the nail bed](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9895t.jpg)Cyanosis of the nail bed

## References

Fernandez-Frackelton M. Cyanosis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 11.

McGee S. Cyanosis. In: McGee S, ed. _Evidence-Based Physical Diagnosis_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 9.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

