Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001471.htm    
                                Description: Pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP) is a rare skin disorder that causes inflammation and scaling (exfoliation) of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pityriasis rubra pilaris

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001471.htm

# Pityriasis rubra pilaris

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP) is a rare skin disorder that causes
inflammation and scaling (exfoliation) of the skin.

## Causes

There are several subtypes of PRP. The cause is unknown, although genetic
factors and an abnormal immune response may be involved. One subtype is
associated with HIV/AIDS.

## Symptoms

PRP is a chronic skin condition in which orange or salmon-colored scaly
patches with thick skin develop on the hands and feet.

The scaly areas may cover much of the body. Small islands of normal skin
(called islands of sparing) are seen within the areas of the scaly skin. The
scaly areas may be itchy. There may be changes in the nails.

PRP can be severe. Although it's not life threatening, PRP can greatly reduce
quality of life and limit activities of daily living.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your skin. Diagnosis is usually madeÂ by
presence of the unique skin lesions. (A lesion is an abnormal area on the
skin). The provider may take samples (biopsies) of the affected skin to
confirm the diagnosis and rule out conditions that may look like PRP.

## Treatment

Topical creams containing urea, lactic acid, retinoids, and steroids may help.
More commonly, treatment includes pills taken by mouth such as isotretinoin,
acitretin, or methotrexate. Exposure to ultraviolet light (light therapy) may
also help. Medicines that affect the body's immune system are currently being
studied and may be effective for PRP.

## Support Groups

This resource can provide more information on PRP:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/pityriasis-rubra-pilaris

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of PRP. Also call if you have the
disorder and symptoms worsen.

## Alternative Names

PRP; Pityriasis pilaris; Lichen ruber acuminatus; Devergie disease

## Images

    * ![Pityriasis rubra pilaris on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2461t.jpg)Pityriasis rubra pilaris on the chest
    * ![Pityriasis rubra pilaris on the feet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2462t.jpg)Pityriasis rubra pilaris on the feet
    * ![Pityriasis rubra pilaris on the palms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2463t.jpg)Pityriasis rubra pilaris on the palms
    * ![Pityriasis rubra pilaris - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2566t.jpg)Pityriasis rubra pilaris - close-up

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Pityriasis rosea,
pityriasis rubra pilaris, and other papulosquamous and hyperkeratotic
diseases. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 11.

Patterson JW. Disorders of pigmentation. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

