Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001367.htm    
                                Description: Milia are tiny white bumps or small cysts on the skin. They are almost always seen in newborn babies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Milia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001367.htm

# Milia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Milia are tiny white bumps or small cysts on the skin. They are almost always
seen in newborn babies.

## Causes

Milia occur when dead skin becomes trapped in small pockets at the surface of
the skin or mouth. They are common in newborn infants.

Similar cysts are seen in the mouths of newborn infants. They are called
Epstein pearls. These cysts also go away on their own.

Adults may develop milia on the face. The bumps and cysts also occur on parts
of the body that are swollen (inflamed) or injured. Rough sheets or clothing
may irritate the skin and mild reddening around the bump. The middle of the
bump will stay white.

Irritated milia are sometimes called "baby acne." This is incorrect since
milia are not a true from of acne.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Whitish, pearly bump in the skin of newborns
    * Bumps that appear across the cheeks, nose, and chin
    * Whitish, pearly bump on gums or roof of mouth (they may look like teeth coming through the gums) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can often diagnose milia just by looking at the skin
or mouth. No testing is needed.

## Treatment

In children, no treatment is needed. Skin changes on the face or cysts in the
mouth often go away after the first few weeks of life without treatment. There
are no lasting effects.

Adults may have milia removed to improve their appearance.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## References

Habif TP. Acne, rosacea, and related disorders. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Long KA, Martin KL. Dermatologic diseases of the neonate. In: Kliegman RM, St.
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 666.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Epidermal nevi,
neoplasms, and cysts. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus
IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

