Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002033.htm    
                                Description: Cellulite is fat that collects in pockets just below the surface of the skin. It forms around the hips, thighs, and buttocks. Cellulite deposits cause the skin to look dimpled.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cellulite

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002033.htm

# Cellulite

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cellulite is fat that collects in pockets just below the surface of the skin.
It forms around the hips, thighs, and buttocks. Cellulite deposits cause the
skin to look dimpled.

## Information

Cellulite may be more visible than fat deeper in the body. Everyone has layers
of fat under the skin, so even thin people can have cellulite. Collagen fibers
that connect fat to the skin may stretch, break down, or pull tight. This
allows fat cells to bulge out.

Your genes may play a part in whether or not you have cellulite. Other factors
may include:

    * Your diet
    * How your body burns energy
    * Hormone changes
    * Dehydration

Cellulite is not harmful to your health. Most health care providers consider
cellulite a normal condition for many women and some men.

Many people seek treatment for cellulite because they are bothered by how it
looks. Talk to your provider about treatment options. These include:

    * Laser treatment, which uses laser energy to break up the tough bands that pull on the skin resulting in the dimpled skin of cellulite.
    * Subcision, which uses a tiny blade to also break up the tough bands.
    * Other treatments, such as carbon dioxide, radiofrequency, ultrasound, creams and lotions, and deep massage devices.

Be sure you understand the risks and benefits of any treatment for cellulite.

Tips for avoiding cellulite include:

    * Eating a healthy diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and fiber
    * Staying hydrated by drinking plenty of fluids
    * Exercising regularly to keep muscles toned and bones strong
    * Maintaining a healthy weight (no yo-yo dieting)
    * Not smoking 

## Images

    * ![Fat layer in skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19490t.jpg)Fat layer in skin
    * ![Muscle cells vs. fat cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19495t.jpg)Muscle cells vs. fat cells
    * ![Cellulite](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9161t.jpg)Cellulite

## References

American Academy of Dermatology website. Cellulite treatments: what really
works? www.aad.org/cosmetic/fat-removal/cellulite-treatments-what-really-
works. Accessed October 15, 2019.

Coleman KM, Coleman WP, Flynn TC. Body contouring: liposuction and non-
invasive modalities. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

Katz BE, Hexsel DM, Hexsel CL. Cellulite. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-
Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 39.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
10/15/2019.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

