Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000751.htm    
                                Description: Dry skin occurs when your skin loses too much water and oil. Dry skin is common and can affect anyone at any age.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dry skin - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000751.htm

# Dry skin - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dry skin occurs when your skin loses too much water and oil. Dry skin is
common and can affect anyone at any age.

Symptoms of dry skin include:

    * Scaling, flaking, or peeling skin
    * Skin that feels rough
    * Skin tightness, especially after bathing
    * Itching
    * Cracks in the skin that may bleed 

You can get dry skin anywhere on your body. But it commonly shows up on the
hands, feet, arms, and lower legs.

## Causes

Dry skin can be caused by:

    * Cold, dry winter air
    * Furnaces that heat the air and remove moisture
    * Hot, dry air in desert environments
    * Air conditioners that cool the air and remove moisture
    * Taking long, hot baths or showers frequently
    * Washing your hands often
    * Some soaps and detergents
    * Skin conditions, such as eczema and psoriasis
    * Certain medicines (both topical and oral)
    * Aging, during which skin gets thinner and produces less natural oil 

## Home Care

You can ease dry skin by restoring moisture to your skin.

    * Moisturize your skin with an ointment, cream, or lotion 2 to 3 times a day, or as often as needed.
    * Moisturizers help lock in moisture, so they work best on damp skin. After you bathe, pat skin dry then apply your moisturizer.
    * Avoid skin care products and soaps that contain alcohol, fragrances, dyes, or other chemicals.
    * Take short, warm baths or showers. Limit your time to 5 to 10 minutes. Avoid taking hot baths or showers.
    * Bathe only once a day.
    * Instead of regular soap, try using gentle skin cleansers or soap with added moisturizers.
    * Only use soap or cleansers on your face, underarms, genital areas, hands, and feet.
    * Avoid scrubbing your skin.
    * Shave right after bathing, when hair is soft.
    * Wear soft, comfortable clothing next to your skin. Avoid rough fabrics like wool.
    * Wash clothes with detergents that are free of dyes or fragrances.
    * Drink plenty of water.
    * Ease itchy skin by applying a cool compress to irritated areas.
    * Try over-the-counter cortisone creams or lotions if your skin is inflamed.
    * Look for moisturizers that contain ceramides. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * You feel itchy without a visible rash
    * Dryness and itching keep you from sleeping
    * You have open cuts or sores from scratching
    * Self-care tips do not relieve your dryness and itching 

## Alternative Names

Skin - dry; Winter itch; Xerosis; Xerosis cutis

## References

American College of Dermatology website. Dry skin: diagnosis and treatment.
www.aad.org/diseases/a-z/dry-skin-treatment#overview. Accessed September 16,
2019.

Habif TP. Atopic dermatitis. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 5.

Lim HW. Eczemas, photodermatoses, papulosquamous (including fungal) diseases,
and figurate erythemas. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 409.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Skin Conditions

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

