Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000833.htm    
                                Description: Granuloma annulare (GA) is a long-term (chronic) skin disease consisting of a rash with reddish bumps arranged in a circle or ring.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Granuloma annulare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000833.htm

# Granuloma annulare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Granuloma annulare (GA) is a long-term (chronic) skin disease consisting of a
rash with reddish bumps arranged in a circle or ring.

## Causes

GA most often affects children and young adults. It is slightly more common in
females.

The condition is usually seen in otherwise healthy people. Sometimes, it may
be associated with diabetes or thyroid disease. The exact cause of GA is
unknown.

## Symptoms

GA usually causes no other symptoms, but the rash may be slightly itchy.

People usually notice a ring of small, firm bumps (papules) over the backs of
the forearms, hands, or feet. Occasionally, they may find a number of rings.

In rare cases, GA appears as a firm nodule under the skin of the arms or legs.
In some cases, the rash spreads all over the body.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may think you have a fungal infection when looking
at your skin as the ring shape may look like ringworm. A skin scraping and KOH
test can be used to tell the difference between GA and a fungal infection.

You may also need a skin punch biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of GA.

## Treatment

GA can resolve on its own. You may not need treatment for GA, except for
cosmetic reasons. Very strong steroid creams or ointments are sometimes used
to clear up the rash more quickly. Injections of steroids directly into the
rings may also be effective. Some providers may choose to freeze the bumps
with liquid nitrogen.

People with severe or widespread cases may need medicines that suppress the
immune system. Laser and ultraviolet light therapy (phototherapy) may also
help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, GA disappears without treatment within 2 years. But, the rings
can remain for many years. The appearance of new rings years later is not
uncommon.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice a ring-like bumps anywhere on your skin that
do not go away within a few weeks.

## Alternative Names

Pseudorheumatoid nodule - subcutaneous granuloma annulare; GA

## Images

    * ![Granuloma annulare - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2025t.jpg)Granuloma annulare - close-up
    * ![Granuloma annulare on the eyelid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2026t.jpg)Granuloma annulare on the eyelid
    * ![Granuloma annulare on the elbow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2509t.jpg)Granuloma annulare on the elbow
    * ![Granuloma annulare on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2562t.jpg)Granuloma annulare on the legs

## References

Habif TP. Cutaneous manifestations of internal disease. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Keimig EL. Granuloma annulare. _Dermatol Clin_. 2015;33(3):315-329. PMID:
26143416 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26143416.

Patterson JW. The granulomatous reaction pattern. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2016:chap 7.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

