Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003386.htm    
                                Description: A Wood lamp examination is a test that uses ultraviolet (UV) light to look at the skin closely.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wood lamp examination

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003386.htm

# Wood lamp examination

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Wood lamp examination is a test that uses ultraviolet (UV) light to look at
the skin closely.

## How the Test Is Performed

You sit in a dark room for this test. The test is usually done in a skin
doctor's (dermatologist's) office. The doctor will turn on the Wood lamp and
hold it 4 to 5 inches (10 to 12.5 centimeters) from the skin to look for color
changes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You do not need to take any special steps before this test. Follow your
doctor's instructions about not putting creams or medicines on the area of the
skin before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You will have no discomfort during this test.

## Why the Test Is Performed

This test is done to look for skin problems including:

    * Bacterial infections
    * Fungal infections
    * Porphyria (an inherited disorder that causes rashes, blistering, and scarring of the skin)
    * Skin coloring changes, such as vitiligo and some skin cancers

Not all types of bacteria and fungi show up under the light.

## Normal Results

Normally the skin will not shine under the ultraviolet light.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A Wood lamp exam may help your doctor confirm a fungal or bacterial infection
or diagnose vitiligo. Your doctor may also be able to learn what is causing
any light- or dark-colored spots on your skin.

The following things can change the results of the test:

    * Washing your skin before the test (may cause a false-negative result)
    * A room that is not dark enough
    * Other materials that glow under the light, such as some deodorants, make-up, soaps, and sometimes lint 

## Risks

DO NOT look directly into the ultraviolet light, as the light may harm the
eye.

## Alternative Names

Black light test; Ultraviolet light test

## Images

    * ![Wood's lamp test - of the scalp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2096t.jpg)Wood's lamp test - of the scalp
    * ![Wood's lamp illumination](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9846t.jpg)Wood's lamp illumination

## References

Habif TP. Light-related diseases and disorders of pigmentation. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Spates ST. Diagnostic techniques. In: Fitzpatrick JE, Morelli JG, eds.
_Dermatology Secrets Plus_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

