Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001467.htm    
                                Description: Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is a rare condition passed down through families. XP causes the skin and tissue covering the eye to be extremely sensitive to ultraviolet (UV) light. Some people also develop    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Xeroderma pigmentosum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001467.htm

# Xeroderma pigmentosum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is a rare condition passed down through families.
XP causes the skin and tissue covering the eye to be extremely sensitive to
ultraviolet (UV) light. Some people also develop nervous system problems.

## Causes

XP is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder. This means you must have 2
copies of an abnormal gene in order for the disease or trait to develop. The
disorder is inherited from both your mother and father at the same time. The
abnormal gene is rare, so the chances of both parents having the gene are very
rare. For this reason, it is unlikely for somebody with the condition to pass
it on to the next generation, although it is possible.

UV light, such as from sunlight, damages the genetic material (DNA) in skin
cells. Normally, the body repairs this damage. But in people with XP, the body
does not fix the damage. As a result, the skin gets very thin and patches of
varying color (splotchy pigmentation) appear.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually appear by the time a child is 2 years old.

Skin symptoms include:

    * Sunburn that does not heal after just a little bit of sun exposure
    * Blistering after just a little bit of sun exposure
    * Spider-like blood vessels under the skin
    * Patches of discolored skin that get worse, resembling severe aging
    * Crusting of the skin
    * Scaling of the skin
    * Oozing raw skin surface
    * Discomfort when being in bright light (photophobia)
    * Skin cancer at a very young age (including melanoma, basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma) 

Eye symptoms include:

    * Dry eye
    * Clouding of the cornea
    * Ulcers of the cornea
    * Swelling or inflammation of the eyelids
    * Cancer of eyelids, cornea or sclera

Nervous system (neurologic) symptoms, which develop in some children, include:

    * Intellectual disability
    * Delayed growth
    * Loss of hearing
    * Muscle weakness of the legs and arms 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, paying special
attention to the skin and eyes. The provider will also ask about a family
history of XP.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Skin biopsy in which skin cells are studied in the laboratory
    * DNA testing for the problem gene 

The following tests can help diagnose the condition in a baby before the
birth:

    * Amniocentesis
    * Chorionic villous sampling
    * Culture of amniotic cells 

## Treatment

People with XP need total protection from sunlight. Even the light coming
through windows or from fluorescent bulbs can be dangerous.

When out in the sun, protective clothing must be worn.

To protect the skin and eyes from the sunlight:

    * Use sunscreen with the highest SPF you can find.
    * Wear long-sleeve shirts and long pants.
    * Wear sunglasses that block UVA and UVB rays. Teach your child to always wear sunglasses when outdoors. 

To prevent skin cancer, the provider may prescribe medicines, such as a
retinoid cream, to apply to the skin.

If skin cancer develops, surgery or other methods will be done to remove the
cancer.

## Support Groups

These resources can help you know more about XP:

    * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/xeroderma-pigmentosum
    * Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society -- www.xps.org
    * XP Family Support Group -- www.xpfamilysupport.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Over one half of people with this condition die of skin cancer early in
adulthood.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with the provider if you or your child has symptoms of
XP.

## Prevention

Experts recommend genetic counseling for people with a family history of XP
who wish to have children.

## Images

    * ![Chromosomes and DNA](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8770t.jpg)Chromosomes and DNA

## References

Bender NR, Chiu YE. Photosensitivity. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 675.

Patterson JW. Disorders of epidermal maturation and keratinization. In:
Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2016:chap 9.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

