Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007506.htm    
                                Description: Cryotherapy is a method of superfreezing tissue in order to destroy it. This article discusses cryotherapy of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cryotherapy for the skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007506.htm

# Cryotherapy for the skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cryotherapy is a method of superfreezing tissue in order to destroy it. This
article discusses cryotherapy of the skin.

## Description

Cryotherapy is done using a cotton swab that has been dipped into liquid
nitrogen or a probe that has liquid nitrogen flowing through it.

The procedure is done in your health care provider's office. It usually takes
less than a minute.

The freezing may cause some discomfort. Your provider may apply a numbing
medicine to the area first.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Cryotherapy or cryosurgery may be used to:

    * Remove warts
    * Destroy precancerous skin lesions (actinic keratoses or solar keratoses)

In rare cases, cryotherapy is used to treat some skin cancers. But, skin that
is destroyed during cryotherapy cannot be examined under a microscope. A skin
biopsy is needed if your provider wants to check the lesion for signs of
cancer.

## Risks

Cryotherapy risks include:

    * Blisters and ulcers, leading to pain and infection
    * Scarring, especially if the freezing was prolonged or deeper areas of the skin were affected
    * Changes in skin color (skin turns white) 

## After the Procedure

Cryotherapy works well for many people. Some skin lesions, especially warts,
may need to be treated more than once.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The treated area may look red after the procedure. A blister will often form
within a few hours. It may appear clear or have a red or purple color.

You may have a little pain for up to 3 days.

Most of the time, no special care is needed during healing. The area should be
washed gently once or twice a day and kept clean. A bandage or dressing should
only be needed if the area rubs against clothes or may be easily injured.

A scab forms and will usually peel away within 1 to 3 weeks, depending on the
area treated.

Call your provider if:

    * There are signs of infection such as redness, swelling, or drainage.
    * The skin lesion is not gone after it has healed.

## Alternative Names

Cryotherapy - skin; Cryosurgery - skin; Warts - freezing; Warts - cryotherapy;
Actinic keratosis - cryotherapy; Solar keratosis - cryotherapy

## References

Habif TP. Dermatologic surgical procedures. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Pasquali P. Cryosurgery. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 138.

## Review Date 6/15/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Warts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Warts_thumb.jpg)Warts _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

