Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000843.htm    
                                Description: Lamellar ichthyosis (LI) is a rare skin condition. It appears at birth and continues throughout life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lamellar ichthyosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000843.htm

# Lamellar ichthyosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lamellar ichthyosis (LI) is a rare skin condition. It appears at birth and
continues throughout life.

## Causes

LI isÂ anÂ autosomal recessive disease. This means that the mother and father
must both pass one abnormal copy of the disease gene to their child in order
for the child to develop the disease.

## Symptoms

Many babies with LI are born with a clear, shiny, waxy layer of skin called a
collodion membrane. For this reason, these babies are known as collodian
babies. The membrane sheds within the first 2 weeks of life. The skin
underneath the membrane is red and scaly. It resembles the surface of a fish.

With LI, the outer layer of skin called the epidermis is not normal and cannot
protect the body like the healthy epidermis can. As a result, a baby with LI
may have the following health problems:

    * Difficulty in feeding
    * Loss of fluid dehydration
    * Loss of balance of minerals in the body (electrolyte imbalance)
    * Breathing problems
    * Body temperature that is not stable
    * Skin or body-wide infections 

Older children and adults with LI may have these symptoms:

    * Very large scales that cover most of the body
    * Decreased ability to sweat causing sensitivity to heat
    * Hair loss
    * Abnormal finger and toenails
    * Skin of the palms and solesÂ is thickened 

## Treatment

Collodion babies usually need to stay in the neonatal intensive care unit
(NICU). They are placed in a high-humidity incubator. They will need extra
feedings. Moisturizers need to be applied to the skin. After the collodion
membrane is shed, babies can usually go home.

Lifelong care of the skin involves keeping the skin moist to minimize the
thickness of the scales. Measures include:

    * Moisturizers applied to the skin
    * Medicines called retinoids that are taken by mouth in severe cases
    * High-humidity environment
    * Bathing to loosen scales

## Support Groups

These groups can provide more information about LI:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/ichthyosis-lamellar
    * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/lamellar-ichthyosis

## Possible Complications

Babies are at risk for infection when they shed the collodian membrane.

Eye problems may occur later in life because the eyes cannot close completely.

## Alternative Names

LI; Collodian baby - lamellar ichthyosis; Ichthyosis congenital; Autosomal
recessive congenital ichthyosis - lamellar ichthyosis type

## Images

    * ![Ichthyosis, acquired - legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1914t.jpg)Ichthyosis, acquired - legs

## References

Martin KL. Disorders of keratinization. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 658.

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Hereditary disorders of cornification. In: Paller AS,
Mancini AJ, eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric Dermatology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 5.

Richard G, Ringpfeil F. Ichthyoses, erythrokeratodermas, and related
disorders. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 57.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

