Link: https://medlineplus.gov/anabolicsteroids.html    
                                Description: Thinking about using anabolic steroids to build muscles or improve your athletic performance? Think again. Misusing them is not legal or safe. It can cause long-term health problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Anabolic Steroids

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/anabolicsteroids.html

#  Anabolic Steroids

Also called: Anabolic-androgenic steroids, Performance-enhancing drugs

## Summary

### What are anabolic steroids?

Anabolic steroids are synthetic (man-made) versions of testosterone.
Testosterone is the main sex hormone in men. It is needed to develop and
maintain male sex characteristics, such as facial hair, deep voice, and muscle
growth. Women do have some testosterone in their bodies, but in much smaller
amounts.

### What are anabolic steroids used for?

Health care providers use anabolic steroids to treat some hormone problems in
men, delayed puberty, and muscle loss from some diseases. But some people
misuse anabolic steroids.

### Why do people misuse anabolic steroids?

Some bodybuilders and athletes use anabolic steroids to build muscles and
improve athletic performance. They may take the steroids orally, inject them
into muscles, or apply them to the skin as a gel or cream. These doses may be
10 to 100 times higher than doses used to treat medical conditions. Using them
this way, without a prescription from a health care provider, is not legal or
safe.

### What are the health effects of misusing anabolic steroids?

Misuse of anabolic steroids, especially over a long period of time, has been
linked to many health problems, including

    * Acne
    * Stunted growth in teens
    * High blood pressure
    * Changes in cholesterol
    * Heart problems, including heart attack
    * Liver disease, including cancer
    * Kidney damage
    * Aggressive behavior

In men, it can also cause

    * Baldness
    * Breast growth
    * Low sperm count/infertility
    * Shrinking of the testicles

In women, it can also cause

    * Changes in your menstrual cycle (period)
    * Growth of body and facial hair
    * Male-pattern baldness
    * Voice deepening

### Are anabolic steroids addictive?

Even though they don't cause a high, anabolic steroids can be addictive. You
can have withdrawal symptoms if you stop using them, including

    * Fatigue
    * Restlessness
    * Loss of appetite
    * Sleep problems
    * Decreased sex drive
    * Steroid cravings
    * Depression, which can sometimes be serious and even lead to suicide attempts

Behavioral therapy and medicines can be helpful in treating anabolic steroid
addiction.

NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Drug Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Learn More

    * Anabolic Steroids (For Teens) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Are Steroids Worth the Risk? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Drug Enforcement Administration
    * Drug Facts: Anabolic Steroids ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Drug Abuse) Also in Spanish
    * Performance-Enhancing Drugs and Teen Athletes (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Performance-Enhancing Drugs: Know the Risks (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Steroids (Nemours Foundation)
    * Steroids (Drug Enforcement Administration)
    * Steroids (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Teens and Steroids: A Dangerous Combo (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Prevalence and profile of users and non-users of anabolic steroids among...
    * Article: Baseline characteristics of the HAARLEM study: 100 male amateur athletes using...
    * Article: Anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) users on AAS use: Negative effects, 'code of...
    * Anabolic Steroids -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)

## Topic Image

![Steroids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnabolicSteroids.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Anabolic Steroids is the National
Institute on Drug Abuse

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 18 August 2014

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

