Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001477.htm    
                                Description: Polymorphous light eruption (PMLE) is a common skin reactionÂ in people who are sensitive to sunlight (ultraviolet light).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polymorphous light eruption

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001477.htm

# Polymorphous light eruption

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polymorphous light eruption (PMLE) is a common skin reactionÂ in people who
are sensitive to sunlight (ultraviolet light).

## Causes

The exact cause of PMLE is unknown.Â However, it may be genetic. Doctors think
it is a type of delayed allergic reaction. It is common among young women who
live in moderate (temperate) climates.

## Symptoms

Polymorphous means taking on different forms, and eruption means rash. As the
name suggests, symptoms of PMLE are rash-like and are different in different
people.

PMLE most often occurs in spring and early summer on areas of the body exposed
to the sun.Â

Symptoms usually appear within 1 to 4 days after exposure to sunlight. They
include any of the following:

    * Small bumps (papules) or blisters
    * Redness or scaling of the skin
    * Itching or burning of the affected skin
    * Swelling, or even blisters (not often seen)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your skin. Usually, the provider can
diagnose PMLE based on your description of the symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Phototesting, during which your skin is exposed to special ultraviolet light to check if your skin develops a rash
    * Removing a small amount of skin for examination skin biopsy to rule out other diseases

## Treatment

Steroid creams or ointments containing vitamin D may be prescribed by your
provider. They are used 2 or 3 times a day at the start of the eruption.
Steroid or other types of pills may be used for more severe cases.

Phototherapy may also be prescribed. Phototherapy is a medical treatment in
which your skin is carefully exposed to ultraviolet light. This may help your
skin become used to (sensitized to) the sun.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people become less sensitive to sunlightÂ over time.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if PMLE symptoms do not respond to
treatments.

## Prevention

Protecting your skin from the sun can help prevent PMLE symptoms:

    * Avoid sun exposure during hours of peak sun ray intensity.
    * Use sunscreen. Sun protection with broad spectrum sunblock that works against UVA rays is important.
    * Apply generous amounts of sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 30. Pay special attention to your face, nose, ears, and shoulders.
    * Apply sunscreen 30 minutes before sun exposure so that it has time to penetrate the skin. Re-apply after swimming and every 2 hours while you are outdoors.
    * Wear a sun hat.
    * Wear sunglasses with UV protection.
    * Use a lip balm with sunscreen.

## Alternative Names

Polymorphic light eruption; Photodermatosis; PMLE; Benign summer light
eruption  

## Images

    * ![Polymorphic light eruption on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2725t.jpg)Polymorphic light eruption on the arm

## References

Morison WL, Richard EG. Polymorphic light eruption. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann
WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 196.

Patterson JW. Reactions to physical agents. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's
Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Sun Exposure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SunExposure_thumb.jpg)Sun
Exposure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

