Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003286.htm    
                                Description: Subcutaneous emphysema occurs when air gets into tissues under the skin. This most often occurs in the skin covering the chest wall or neck, but can also occur in other parts of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subcutaneous emphysema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003286.htm

# Subcutaneous emphysema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Subcutaneous emphysema occurs when air gets into tissues under the skin. This
most often occurs in the skin covering the chest wall or neck, but can also
occur in other parts of the body.

## Considerations

Subcutaneous emphysema can often be seen as a smooth bulging of the skin. When
a health care provider feels (palpates) the skin, it produces an unusual
crackling sensation (crepitus) as the gas is pushed through the tissue.

## Causes

This is a rare condition. When it does occur, possible causes include:

    * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax), often occurring with a rib fracture
    * Facial bone fracture
    * Ruptured bronchial tube
    * Ruptured esophagus 

This condition can happen due to:

    * Blunt trauma.
    * Blast injuries.
    * Breathing in cocaine.
    * Corrosives or chemical burns of the esophagus.
    * Diving injuries.
    * Forceful vomiting (Boerhaave syndrome).
    * Gunshot wounds.
    * Pertussis (whooping cough).
    * Stabbing.
    * Certain medical procedures that insert a tube into the body. These include endoscopy (tube into the esophagus and the stomach through the mouth), a central venous line (thin catheter into a vein close to the heart), endotracheal intubation (tube into the throat and trachea through the mouth or nose), and bronchoscopy (tube into the bronchial tubes through the mouth). 

Air can also be found in between skin layers on the arms and legs or torso
after certain infections, including gas gangrene, and after scuba diving.
(Scuba divers with asthma are more likely to have this problem than other
scuba divers.)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most of the conditions that cause subcutaneous emphysema are very severe, and
you are likely already being treated by a provider. Sometimes a hospital stay
is needed. This is more likely if the problem is due to an infection.

If you feel subcutaneous air in relation to any of the situations described
above, particularly after trauma, call 911 or your local emergency services
number immediately.

DO NOT administer any fluids. DO NOT move the person unless it is absolutely
necessary to remove them from a hazardous environment. Protect the neck and
back from further injury when doing so.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including:

    * Temperature
    * Pulse
    * Breathing rate
    * Blood pressure 

Symptoms will be treated as needed. The person may receive:

    * Breathing support, including oxygen, endotracheal intubation (tube through the nose or mouth into the trachea) and ventilator (breathing machine)
    * Blood tests
    * Chest tube -- tube through the skin and muscles between the ribs into the pleural space (space between the chest wall and the lung) if there is lung collapse
    * CAT/CT scan (computerized axial tomography or advanced imaging) of the chest and abdomen or area with the subcutaneous air
    * ECG (electrocardiogram or heart tracing)
    * Fluids (intravenous or through the vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms
    * X-rays of chest and abdomen and other body parts that may have been injured 

The prognosis depends on the cause of the subcutaneous emphysema. If
associated with major trauma, a procedure or infection, the severity of those
conditions will determine the outcome.

Subcutaneous emphysema associated with scuba diving is most often less
serious.

## Alternative Names

Crepitus; Subcutaneous air; Tissue emphysema

## References

Byyny RL, Shockley LW. Scuba diving and dysbarism. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 135.

Cheng G-S, Varghese TK, Park DR. Pneumomediastinum and mediastinitis. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
84.

Raja AS. Thoracic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

Kosowsky JM, Kimberly HH. Pleural disease. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 67.

## Review Date 6/24/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

