Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001462.htm    
                                Description: Keratosis pilaris is a common skin condition in which a protein in the skin called keratin forms hard plugs within hair follicles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Keratosis pilaris

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001462.htm

# Keratosis pilaris

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Keratosis pilaris is a common skin condition in which a protein in the skin
called keratin forms hard plugs within hair follicles.

## Causes

Keratosis pilaris is harmless (benign). It seems to run in families. It is
more common in people who have very dry skin, or who have atopic dermatitis
(eczema).

The condition is generally worse in winter and often clears in the summer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Small bumps that look like "goose bumps" on the back of the upper arms and thighs
    * Bumps feel like very rough sandpaper
    * Skin-colored bumps are the size of a grain of sand
    * Slight pinkness may be seen around some bumps
    * Bumps may appear on the face and be mistaken for acne 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can usually diagnose this condition by looking at
your skin. Tests are usually not needed.

## Treatment

Treatment may include:

    * Moisturizing lotions to soothe the skin and help it look better
    * Skin creams that containÂ urea, lactic acid, glycolic acid, salicylic acid, tretinoin, or vitamin D
    * Steroid creams to reduce redness

Improvement often takes months, and the bumps are likely to come back.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Keratosis pilaris may fade slowly with age.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if the bumps are bothersome and do not get better with
lotions you buy without a prescription.

## Images

    * ![Keratosis pilaris on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2523t.jpg)Keratosis pilaris on the cheek
    * ![Keratosis pilaris rubra faceii](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2693t.jpg)Keratosis pilaris rubra faceii
    * ![Keratosis pilaris rubra faceii](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2694t.jpg)Keratosis pilaris rubra faceii

## References

Desai NC, Silverman RA. Keratosis pilaris and variants. In: Lebwohl MG,
Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson I, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease:
Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 118.

Patterson JW. Diseases of cutaneous appendages. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 11/3/2017

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eczema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Eczema_thumb.jpg)Eczema _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

