Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000867.htm    
                                Description: Lichen planusÂ is a condition that forms a very itchy rash on the skin or in the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lichen planus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000867.htm

# Lichen planus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lichen planusÂ is a condition that forms a very itchy rash on the skin or in
the mouth.

## Causes

The exact cause of lichen planus is unknown. It may be related to an allergic
or immune reaction.

Risks for the condition include:

    * Exposure to certain medicines, dyes, and other chemicals (including gold, antibiotics, arsenic, iodides, chloroquine, quinacrine, quinide, phenothiazines, and diuretics)
    * Diseases such as hepatitis C

Lichen planus mostly affects middle-aged adults. It is less common in
children.

## Symptoms

Mouth sores are one symptom of lichen planus. They:

    * May be tender or painful (mild cases may not cause pain)
    * Are located on the sides of the tongue, inside of the cheek, or on the gums
    * Look like bluish-white spots or pimples
    * Form lines in a lacy network
    * Gradually increase in size
    * Sometimes form painful ulcers

Skin sores are another symptom of lichen planus. They:

    * Usually appear on the inner wrist, legs, torso, or genitals
    * Are extremely itchy
    * Have even sides (symmetrical) and sharp borders
    * Occur alone or in clusters, often at the site of a skin injury
    * May be covered with thin white streaks or scratch marks
    * Are shiny or scaly looking
    * Have a dark, violet color
    * May develop blisters or ulcers 

Other symptoms of lichen planus are:

    * Dry mouth
    * Hair loss
    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Ridges in the nails 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may make the diagnosis based on the appearance of
your skin or mouth lesions.

A skin lesion biopsy or biopsy of a mouth lesion can confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms and speed healing. If your
symptoms are mild, you may not need treatment.

Treatments may include:

    * Antihistamines
    * Medicines that calm down the immune system (in severe cases)
    * Lidocaine mouthwashes to numb the area and make eating more comfortable (for mouth sores)
    * Topical corticosteroids or oral corticosteroids to reduce swelling and lower immune responses
    * Corticosteroid shots into a sore
    * Vitamin A as a cream or taken by mouth
    * Other medicines that are applied to the skin
    * Dressings placed over your skin with medicines to keep you from scratching
    * Ultraviolet light therapy 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Lichen planus is usually not harmful. MostÂ often it gets better with
treatment. The condition often clears up within 18 months, but may come and go
for years.

If lichen planus is caused by a medicine you are taking, the rash should go
away once you stop the medicine.

## Possible Complications

Mouth ulcers that are present for a long time may develop into oral cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your skin or mouth lesions change in appearance
    * The condition continues orÂ gets worse,Â even with treatment
    * Your dentist recommends changing your medicines or treating conditions that trigger the disorder

## Images

    * ![Lichen planus - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1561t.jpg)Lichen planus - close-up
    * ![Lichen nitidus on the abdomen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2202t.jpg)Lichen nitidus on the abdomen
    * ![Lichen planus on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2491t.jpg)Lichen planus on the arm
    * ![Lichen planus on the hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2492t.jpg)Lichen planus on the hands
    * ![Lichen planus on the oral mucosa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2493t.jpg)Lichen planus on the oral mucosa
    * ![Lichen striatus - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2667t.jpg)Lichen striatus - close-up
    * ![Lichen striatus on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2668t.jpg)Lichen striatus on the leg
    * ![Lichen striatus - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2764t.jpg)Lichen striatus - close-up

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Lichen planus and
related conditions. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus
IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 12.

Patterson JW. The lichenoid reaction pattern ('interface dermatitis'). In:
Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2016:chap 3.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

