Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000835.htm    
                                Description: Dry skin occurs when your skin loses too much water and oil. Dry skin is common and can affect anyone at any age. The medical term for dry skin is xerosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dry skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000835.htm

# Dry skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dry skin occurs when your skin loses too much water and oil. Dry skin is
common and can affect anyone at any age. The medical term for dry skin is
xerosis.

## Causes

Dry skin can be caused by:

    * The climate, such as cold, dry winter air or hot, dry desert environments
    * Dry indoor air from heating or cooling systems
    * Bathing too often or too long
    * Some soaps and detergents
    * Skin conditions, such as eczema or psoriasis
    * Diseases, such as diabetes, underactive thyroid, SjÃ¶gren syndrome, among others
    * Certain medicines (both topical and oral)
    * Aging, during which skin gets thinner and produces less natural oil

## Symptoms

Your skin may get dry, scaly, itchy, and red. You may also have fine cracks on
the skin.

The problem is usually worse on the arms and legs.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your skin. You'll be asked about your
health history and skin symptoms.

If the provider suspects the dry skin is caused by a health problem that
hasn't been diagnosed yet, tests will likely be ordered.

## Treatment

Your provider may suggest home care measures, including:

    * Moisturizers, especially creams or lotions that contain urea and lactic acid
    * Topical steroids for areas that get very inflamed and itchy

If your dry skin is from a health problem, you'll likely be treated for it as
well.

## Prevention

To prevent dry skin:

    * Do notÂ expose your skin to water more often than needed.
    * Use lukewarm bath water. Afterward, pat the skin dry with the towel instead of rubbing.
    * Choose gentle skin cleansers that are free from dyes and perfumes.

## Alternative Names

Xerosis; Asteatotic eczema; Eczema craquele

## Images

    * ![Xerosis - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1940t.jpg)Xerosis - close-up

## References

American Academy of Dermatology website. Dry skin.
www.aad.org/diseases/a-z/dry-skin-overview. Accessed December 23, 2019.

Coulson I. Xerosis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH,
eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2018:chap 258.

Pierwola KK, Patel GA, Lambert WC, Schwartz RA. Skin disease and old age. In:
Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric
Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2017:chap 94.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 12/23/19.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

