Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000834.htm    
                                Description: Stasis dermatitis is a change in the skin that results for the pooling of blood in the veins of the lower leg. Ulcers are open sores that can result from untreated stasis dermatitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stasis dermatitis and ulcers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000834.htm

# Stasis dermatitis and ulcers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stasis dermatitis is a change in the skin that results for the pooling of
blood in the veins of the lower leg. Ulcers are open sores that can result
from untreated stasis dermatitis.

## Causes

Venous insufficiency is a long-term (chronic) condition in which the veins
have problems sending blood from the legs back to the heart. This may be due
to damaged valves that are in the veins.Â

Some people with venous insufficiency develop stasis dermatitis. Blood pools
in the veins of the lower leg. Fluid and blood cells leak out of the veins
into the skin and other tissues. This may lead to itching and inflammation,
which cause more skin changes. The skin may then break down to form open
sores.

## Symptoms

You may have symptoms of venous insufficiency including:

    * Dull aching or heaviness in the leg
    * Pain that gets worse when you stand or walk
    * Swelling in the leg 

At first, the skin of the ankles and lower legs may look thin or tissue-like.
You may slowly get brown stains on the skin.

The skin may become irritated or crack if you scratch it. It may also become
red or swollen, crusted, or weepy.

Over time, some skin changes become permanent:

    * Thickening and hardening of the skin on the legs and ankles (lipodermatosclerosis)
    * A bumpy or cobblestone appearance of the skin
    * Skin turns dark brown 

Skin sores (ulcers) may develop (called a venous ulcer or stasis ulcer). These
most often form on the inside of the ankle.

## Exams and Tests

The diagnosis is primarily based on the way the skin looks. Your health care
provider may order tests to examine the blood flow in your legs.

Stasis dermatitis can also be related to heart problems or other conditions
that cause leg swelling. Your provider may need to check your general health
and order more tests.

## Treatment

Your provider may suggest the following to manage the venous insufficiency
that causes stasis dermatitis:

    * Use elastic or compression stockings to reduce swelling
    * Avoid standing or sitting for long periods of time
    * Keep your leg raised when you sit
    * Try varicose vein stripping or other surgical procedures 

Some skin care treatments can make the problem worse. Talk with your provider
before using any lotions, creams, or antibiotic ointments.

Things to avoid:

    * Topical antibiotics, such as neomycin
    * Drying lotions, such as calamine
    * Lanolin
    * Benzocaine and other products meant to numb the skin 

Treatments your provider may suggest include:

    * Unna boot (compressive wet dressing, used only when instructed)
    * Topical steroid creams or ointments
    * Oral antibiotics
    * Good nutrition 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Stasis dermatitis is often a long-term (chronic) condition. Healing is related
to the successful treatment of the cause, factors causing the ulcer, and
prevention of complications.

## Possible Complications

Complications of stasis ulcers include:

    * Bacterial skin infections
    * Infection of bone
    * Permanent scar
    * Skin cancer (squamous cell carcinoma)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop leg swelling or symptoms of stasis
dermatitis.

Watch for signs of infection such as:

    * Drainage that looks like pus
    * Open skin sores (ulcers)
    * Pain
    * Redness

## Prevention

To prevent this condition, control the causes of swelling of the leg, ankle,
and foot (peripheral edema).

## Alternative Names

Venous stasis ulcers; Ulcers - venous; Venous ulcer; Venous insufficiency -
stasis dermatitis; Vein - stasis dermatitis

## Images

    * ![Dermatitis - stasis on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2539t.jpg)Dermatitis - stasis on the leg

## References

Baxi O, Yeranosian M, Lin A, Munoz M, Lin S. Orthotic management of
neuropathic and dysvascular feet. In: Webster JB, Murphy DP, eds. _Atlas of
Orthoses and Assistive Devices_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
26.

Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL. Necrotic and ulcerative skin disorders. In:
Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL, eds. _Urgent Care Dermatology: Symptom-Based
Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Ulcers. In: Marks JG, Miller JJ, eds. _Lookingbill and
Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 19.

Marston W. Venous ulcers. In: Almeida JI, ed. _Atlas of Endovascular Venous
Surgery_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 20.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

