Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007673.htm    
                                Description: A skin lesion is an area of the skin that is different than the surrounding skin. This can be a lump, sore, or an area of skin that is not normal. It may also be a skin cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin lesion removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007673.htm

# Skin lesion removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin lesion is an area of the skin that is different than the surrounding
skin. This can be a lump, sore, or an area of skin that is not normal. It may
also be a skin cancer.

Skin lesion removal is a procedure to remove the lesion.

## Description

Most lesion removal procedures are easily done in your doctor's office or an
outpatient medical office. You may need to see your primary care provider, a
skin doctor (dermatologist), or a surgeon.

Which procedure you have depends on the location, size, and type of lesion.
The removed lesion is usually sent to the lab where it is examined under a
microscope.

You may receive some type of numbing medicine (anesthetic) before the
procedure.

The different types of skin removal techniques are described below.

SHAVE EXCISION

This technique is used for skin lesions that rise above the skin or are in the
upper layer of skin.

Your doctor uses a small blade to remove the outermost layers of skin after
the area is made numb. The area removed includes all or part of the lesion.

You usually do not need stitches. At the end of the procedure, medicine is
applied to the area to stop any bleeding. Or the area may be treated with
cautery to seal blood vessels shut. Neither of these will hurt.

SIMPLE SCISSOR EXCISION

This technique is also used for skin lesions that rise above the skin or are
in the upper layer of skin..

Your doctor will grab the skin lesion with a small forceps and lightly pull
up. Small, curved scissors will be used to carefully cut around and under the
lesion. A curette (an instrument used to clean or scrape skin) maybe used to
cut any remaining parts of the lesion.

You will rarely need stitches. At the end of the procedure, medicine is
applied to the area to stop any bleeding. Or the area may be treated with
cautery to seal blood vessels shut.

SKIN EXCISION - FULL THICKNESS

This technique involves removing a skin lesion in the deeper levels of the
skin down to the fatty layer under the skin. A small amount of normal tissue
surrounding the lesion may be removed to ensure it is clear of any possible
cancer cells (clear margins). It is more likely to be done when there is a
concern about a skin cancer.

    * Most often, an area the shape of an ellipse (an American football) is removed, as this makes it easier to close with stitches.
    * The entire lesion is removed, going as deep as the fat, if needed, to get the whole area. A margin of about 3 to 4 millimeters (mm) or more surrounding the tumor may also be removed to ensure clear margins. 

The area is closed with stitches. If a large area is removed, a skin graft or
flap of normal skin may be used to replace the skin that was removed.

CURETTAGE AND ELECTRODESICCATION

This procedure involves scraping or scooping out a skin lesion. A technique
that uses high frequency electrical current may be used before or after. This
is called electrodesiccation.

It may be used for superficial lesions that do not need a full thickness
excision.

LASER EXCISION

A laser is a light beam that can be focused on a very small area and can treat
very specific types of cells. The laser heats the cells in the area being
treated until they "burst." There are several types of lasers. Each laser has
specific uses.

Laser excision can remove:

    * Benign or pre-malignant skin lesions
    * Warts
    * Moles
    * Sunspots
    * Hair
    * Small blood vessels in the skin
    * Tattoos 

CRYOTHERAPY

Cryotherapy is a method of super-freezing tissue in order to destroy it. It is
most commonly used to destroy or remove warts, actinic keratoses, seborrheic
keratoses, and molluscum contagiosum.

Cryotherapy is done using a cotton swab that has been dipped into liquid
nitrogen or a probe that has liquid nitrogen flowing through it. The procedure
usually takes less than a minute.

The freezing may cause some discomfort. Your doctor may apply a numbing
medicine to the area first. After the procedure, the treated area may blister
and the destroyed lesion will peel away.

MOHS SURGERY

Mohs surgery is a way to treat and cure certain skin cancers. Surgeons trained
in the Mohs procedure can do this surgery. It is a skin-sparing technique that
allows skin cancer to be removed with less damage to the healthy skin around
it.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

It may be done to improve a person's appearance, or if the lesion is causing
irritation or discomfort.

Your doctor may recommend having a lesion removed if you have:

    * Benign growths
    * Warts
    * Moles
    * Skin tags
    * Seborrheic keratosis
    * Actinic keratosis
    * Squamous cell carcinoma
    * Bowen disease
    * Basal cell carcinoma
    * Molluscum contagiosum
    * Melanoma
    * Other skin conditions

## Risks

Risks of a skin excision may include:

    * Infection
    * Scar (keloids)
    * Bleeding
    * Changes in skin color
    * Poor wound healing
    * Nerve damage
    * Recurrence of the lesion
    * Blisters and ulcers, leading to pain and infection

## Before the Procedure

Tell your doctor:

    * About the medicines you are taking, including vitamins and supplements, herbal remedies, and over-the-counter medicines
    * If you have any allergies
    * If you have bleeding problems

Follow your doctor's instructions on how to prepare for the procedure.

## After the Procedure

.The area may be tender for a few days afterward.

Taking proper care of your wound will help your skin look its best. Your
provider will talk with you about your options:

    * Allowing a small wound heal itself, since most small wounds heal well on their own.
    * Using stitches to close the wound.
    * Skin grafting during which the wound is covered using skin from another part of your body.
    * Applying a skin flap to cover the wound with skin next to the wound (the skin near the wound matches in color and texture). 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Having lesions removed works well for many people. Some skin lesions, such as
warts, may need to be treated more than once.

## Alternative Names

Shave excision - skin; Excision of skin lesions - benign; Skin lesion removal
- benign; CryosurgeryÂ - skin, benign; BCC - removal; Basal cell cancer -
removal; Actinic keratosis - removal; Wart - removal; Squamous cell - removal;
Mole - removal; Nevus - removal; Nevi - removal; Scissor excision; Skin tag
removal; Mole removal; Skin cancer removal; Birthmark removal; Molluscum
contagiosum - removal; Electrodesiccation - skin lesion removal

## References

Habif TP. Benign skin tumors. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

Habif TP. Dermatologic surgical procedures. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Cutaneous laser surgery. In: James WD, Berger
TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_.
12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

