Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003280.htm    
                                Description: Hyperelastic skin is skin that can be stretched beyond what is considered normal. The skin returns to normal after it is stretched.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperelastic skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003280.htm

# Hyperelastic skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperelastic skin is skin that can be stretched beyond what is considered
normal. The skin returns to normal after it is stretched.

## Considerations

Hyperelasticity occurs when there is a problem with how the body makes
collagen or elastin fibers. These are types of proteins that makes up much of
the body's tissue.

## Causes

Hyperelastic skin is most often seen in people who have Ehlers-Danlos
syndrome. People with this disorder have very elastic skin. They also have
joints that can be bent more than is normally possible. For this reason, they
are sometimes referred to as rubber men or women.

Other conditions that may cause skin that is easily stretched include:

    * Marfan syndrome (genetic disorder of human connective tissue)
    * Osteogenesis imperfecta (congenital bone disorder characterized by brittle bones)
    * Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (rare genetic disorder that causes fragmentation and mineralization of elastic fibers in some tissues)
    * Subcutaneous T-cell lymphoma (type of lymph system cancer that involves the skin)
    * Sun-related changes of older skin 

## Home Care

You need to take special steps to avoid skin damage when you have this
condition because your skin is more delicate than normal. You are more likely
to get cuts and scrapes, and scars may stretch and become more visible.

Talk to your health care provider about what you can do for this problem. Get
skin check-ups often.

If you need surgery, discuss with your provider how the wound will be dressed
and cared for after the procedure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your skin appears to be very stretchy
    * Your child appears to have delicate skin 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do a physical exam to assess your skin, bones, muscles, and
joints.

Questions your provider might ask about you or your child are:

    * Did the skin appear abnormal at birth, or did this develop over time?
    * Is there a history of the skin becoming damaged easily, or being slow to heal?
    * Have you or any member of your family been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome?
    * What other symptoms are present?

Genetic counseling may be helpful to determine if you have an inherited
disorder.

## Alternative Names

India rubber skin

## Images

    * ![Ehlers-Danlos, hyperelasticity of the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2409t.jpg)Ehlers-Danlos, hyperelasticity of the skin

## References

Islam MP, Roach ES. Neurocutaneous syndromes. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 100.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Abnormalities of dermal fibrous and elastic
tissue. In: James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the
Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
25.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

