Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000425.htm    
                                Description: IgA vasculitis is a disease that involves purple spots on the skin, joint pain, gastrointestinal problems, and glomerulonephritis (a type of kidney disorder).Â It is also known as Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

IgA vasculitis - Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000425.htm

# IgA vasculitis - Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

IgA vasculitis is a disease that involves purple spots on the skin, joint
pain, gastrointestinal problems, and glomerulonephritis (a type of kidney
disorder).Â It is also known as Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura (HSP).

## Causes

IgA vasculitis is caused by an abnormal response of the immune system. The
result is inflammation in the microscopic blood vessels in the skin. Blood
vessels in the joints, kidneys, or the intestines may also be affected. It is
unclear why this occurs.

The syndrome is mostly seen in children between ages 3 and 15 years, but it
may be seen in adults. It is more common in boys than in girls. Many people
who develop this disease had an upper respiratory infection in the weeks
before.

## Symptoms

Symptoms and features of IgA vasculitis may include:

    * Purple spots on the skin (purpura). This occurs in nearly all children with the condition. This most often occurs over the buttocks, lower legs, and elbows.
    * Abdominal pain.
    * Joint pain.
    * Abnormal urine (may have no symptoms).
    * Diarrhea, sometimes bloody.
    * Hives or angioedema.
    * Nausea and vomiting.
    * Swelling and pain in the scrotum of boys.
    * Headache.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look at your body and look at your skin. The
physical exam will show skin sores (purpura, lesions) and joint tenderness.

Tests may include:

    * Urinalysis should be done in all cases.
    * Complete blood count. The platelet could should be normal.
    * Coagulation tests: these should be normal.
    * Skin biopsy, especially in adults. 
    * Blood tests to look for other causes of blood vessel inflammation, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, ANCA-associated vasculitis or hepatitis.
    * In adults, a kidney biopsy should be done.
    * Imaging tests of the abdomen if pain is present.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment. Most cases go away on their own. Joint pain
may improve with NSAIDs such as naproxen. If symptoms do not go away, you may
be prescribed a corticosteroid medicine such as prednisone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease most often gets better on its own. Two thirds of children with IgA
vasculitis have only one episode. One third of children have more episodes.
People should have close medical follow-up for 6 months after episodes to look
for signs of kidney disease. Adults have a greater risk of developing chronic
kidney disease.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding inside the body
    * Blocking of the intestine (in children)  

    * Kidney problems (in rare cases) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of IgA vasculitis, and they last for more than a few days.
    * You have colored urine or low urine output after an episode.

## Alternative Names

Immunoglobulin A vasculitis; Leukocytoclastic vasculitis; Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein
purpura; HSP

## Images

    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the lower legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1558t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the lower legs
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19831t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19832t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19834t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2578t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's foot
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2579t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2580t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2581t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the legs

## References

Arntfield RT, Hicks CM. Systemic lupus erythematosus and the vasculitides. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
108.

Dinulos JGH. Hypersensitivity syndromes and vasculitis. In: Habif TP, Dinulos
JGH, Chapman MS, Zug KA, eds. _Skin Disease: Diagnosis and Treatment_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 11.

Feehally J, FLoege J. Immunoglobulin A nephropathy and IgA vasculitis (Henoch-
SchÃ¶nlein purpura). In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds.
_Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 23.

Hahn D, Hodson EM, Willis NS, Craig JC. Interventions for preventing and
treating kidney disease in Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura (HSP). _Cochrane Database
Syst Rev_. 2015;(8):CD005128. PMID: 26258874 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/
26258874.

Lu S, Liu D, Xiao J, et al. Comparison between adults and children with
Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura nephritis. _Pediatr Nephrol_. 2015;30(5):791-796.
PMID: 25481021 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25481021.

Patterson JW. The vasculopathic reaction pattern. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2016:chap 8.

SunderkÃ¶tter CH, Zelger B, Chen KR, et al. Nomenclature of cutaneous
vasculitis: Dermatologic addendum to the 2012 revised International Chapel
Hill Consensus Conference Nomenclature of Vasculitides. _Arthritis Rheumatol_.
2018;70(2):171-184. PMID: 29136340 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29136340.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Vasculitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasculitis_thumb.jpg)Vasculitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

