Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003241.htm    
                                Description: Skin blushing or flushing is a sudden reddening of the face, neck, or upper chest due to increased blood flow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin blushing/flushing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003241.htm

# Skin blushing/flushing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Skin blushing or flushing is a sudden reddening of the face, neck, or upper
chest due to increased blood flow.

## Causes

Blushing is a normal body response that may occur when you are embarrassed,
angry, excited, or experiencing another strong emotion.

Flushing of the face may be associated with certain medical conditions, such
as:

    * High fever
    * Menopause
    * Rosacea (a chronic skin problem)
    * Carcinoid syndrome (group of symptoms associated with carcinoid tumors, which are tumors of the small intestine, colon, appendix, and bronchial tubes in the lungs)

Other causes include:

    * Alcohol use
    * Certain medicines used to treat diabetes and high cholesterol
    * Exercise
    * Extreme emotions
    * Hot or spicy foods
    * Rapid changes in temperature or heat exposure

## Home Care

Try to avoid the things that cause your blushing. For example, you may need to
avoid hot drinks, spicy foods, extreme temperatures, or bright sunlight.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have persistent flushing, particularly
if you have other symptoms (such as diarrhea).

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and may ask about your medical
history and symptoms, including:

    * Does the flushing affect the whole body or just the face?
    * Do you have hot flashes?
    * How often do you have flushing or blushing?
    * Are episodes getting worse or more frequent?
    * Is it worse after you drink alcohol?
    * What other symptoms do you have? For example, do you have diarrhea, wheezing, hives, or difficulty breathing?
    * Does it happen when you eat certain foods or exercise?

Treatment depends on the cause of your blushing or flushing. Your provider may
recommend that you avoid things that trigger the condition.

## Alternative Names

Blushing; Flushing; Red face

## References

Habif TP. Acne, rosacea, and related disorders. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Erythema and
urticaria. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 7.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

