

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Features

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# _Salmonella_ and Eggs

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Carton of eggs](/features/salmonellaeggs/salmonellaeggs_456px.jpg)

**Eggs are one of nature 's most nutritious and economical foods. But it's
important that you take care when handling and preparing fresh eggs and egg
products. **

The inside of eggs that appear normal can contain a germ called _Salmonella_
that can make you sick, especially if you eat raw or lightly cooked eggs. Eggs
are safe when you cook and handle them properly.

### How can I reduce my chance of getting a _Salmonella_ infection?

                    * Consider buying and using pasteurized eggs and egg products, which are widely available.
                    * Keep eggs refrigerated at 40°F (4°C) or colder at all times. Only buy eggs from stores and suppliers that keep them refrigerated.
                    * Discard cracked or dirty eggs.

![Hands holding eggs](/features/salmonellaeggs/salmonellaeggs_a350px.jpg)

The inside of eggs that appear normal can contain a germ called _Salmonella_
that can make you sick, but eggs are safe when you cook and handle them
properly.

Poultry may carry bacteria such as _Salmonella_ , which can contaminate the
inside of eggs before the shells are formed. Egg shells may become
contaminated with _Salmonella_ from poultry droppings (poop) or the area where
they are laid.

                    * Cook eggs until both the yolk and white are firm. Egg dishes should be cooked to an internal temperature of 160°F (71°C) or hotter.
                    * Make sure that foods that contain raw or lightly cooked eggs, such as hollandaise sauce, Caesar salad dressing, and tiramisu, are made only with pasteurized eggs.
                    * Eat or refrigerate eggs and foods containing eggs promptly after cooking. Do not keep eggs or foods made with eggs warm or at room temperature for more than 2 hours, or 1 hour if the temperature is 90°F or hotter.
                    * Wash hands and items that came into contact with raw eggs--including counter tops, utensils, dishes, and cutting boards--with soap and water.

![Egg yolks in bowl with
whisk](/features/salmonellaeggs/salmonellaeggs_b350px.jpg)  
Wash hands and items that came into contact with raw eggs, including
countertops, utensils, dishes, and cutting boards, with soap and water.

### Illness from _Salmonella_ can be serious and is more dangerous for certain
people.

Adults older than 65 years, children younger than 5 years, and people with
weakened immune systems, such as those with HIV/AIDS, diabetes, or an organ
transplant, may get a more serious illness that can even be life threatening.

In most cases, illness lasts 4-7 days after eating a contaminated food.
Symptoms include:

                    * Diarrhea
                    * Vomiting
                    * Fever
                    * Abdominal cramps

Symptoms typically appear 6 hours to 6 days after eating a contaminated food.
Some people can have diarrhea many times a day for several days and the sick
person may need to be hospitalized.

### Should I see the doctor?

Call your child's doctor if your child has:

                    * Diarrhea that doesn't improve after 1 day
                    * Vomiting lasting more than 12 hours for infants, 1 day for children younger than age 2, or 2 days for other children
                    * Signs of dehydration, including not urinating in 3 or more hours, dry mouth or tongue, or cries without tears
                    * Fever higher than 102˚F (39˚C)
                    * Bloody stools

Call your doctor if you have:

                    * Diarrhea that doesn't improve after 2 days
                    * Vomiting lasting more than 2 days
                    * Signs of dehydration, including little or no urination, excessive thirst, a very dry mouth, dizziness or lightheadedness, or very dark urine
                    * Fever higher than 102˚F (39˚C)
                    * Bloody stools

More Information

![Fresh eggs](/features/salmonellaeggs/salmonellaeggs_c350px.jpg)

Poultry may carry bacteria such as _Salmonella_ , which can contaminate the
inside of eggs before the shells are formed. Egg shells may become
contaminated with _Salmonella_ from poultry droppings (poop) or the area where
they are laid. Take care around backyard poultry to avoid _Salmonella_
infection.

Watch the story of Tyler's family, who changed how they interacted with their
birds after Tyler got sick from _Salmonella_.

For more information about _Salmonella_ , foodborne illness, and food safety,
call 1-800-CDC-INFO, submit a question or visit these websites:

                    *                       *                         * CDC's Food Safety Website
                        * Quick Tips for Preventing _Salmonella_
                        * Questions and Answers on _Salmonella_
                        * Egg Storage Chartexternal icon
                        * Eggs and Egg Productsexternal icon
                        * Egg Safety and Eating Outexternal icon
                        * Egg Safety: What You Need to Know external icon
                        * Egg Products and Food Safetyexternal icon
                        * Home Produced Chicken Eggsexternal icon

Page last reviewed: February 14, 2020

Content source:

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, Division of
Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases

home CDC Features

                    * Data & Statistics
                    * Diseases & Conditions
                    * Emergency Preparedness & Response
                    * Environmental Health
                    * Healthy Living
                    * Injury, Violence & Safety
                    * Life Stages & Populations
                    * Travelersâ Health
                    * Workplace Safety & Health

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![Step It Up! Surgeon General's Call to Action to Promote Walking and Walkable
Communities](/physicalactivity/images/cta/CDC-web-button-v5.jpg)
![24/7](/features/images/24-7_i150x120html.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

