Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003287.htm    
                                Description: Stretch marks are irregular areas of skin that look like bands, stripes, or lines. Stretch marks are seen when a person grows or gains weight rapidly or has certain diseases or conditions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stretch marks

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003287.htm

# Stretch marks

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stretch marks are irregular areas of skin that look like bands, stripes, or
lines. Stretch marks are seen when a person grows or gains weight rapidly or
has certain diseases or conditions.

The medical name for stretch marks is striae.

## Considerations

Stretch marks can appear when there is rapid stretching of the skin. The marks
appear as parallel streaks of red, thinned, glossy skin that over time become
whitish and scar-like in appearance. Stretch marks may be slightly depressed
and have a different texture than normal skin.

They are often seen when a woman's abdomen gets larger during pregnancy. They
can be found in children who have become rapidly obese. They may also occur
during the rapid growth of puberty. Stretch marks are most commonly located on
the breasts, hips, thighs, buttocks, abdomen, and flank.

## Causes

Causes of stretch marks may include any of the following:

    * Cushing syndrome (disorder that occurs when the body has a high level of the hormone cortisol)
    * Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (disorder marked by very stretchy skin that bruises easily)
    * Abnormal collagen formation, or medicines that block collagen formation
    * Pregnancy
    * Puberty
    * Obesity
    * Overuse of cortisone skin creams

## Home Care

There is no specific care for stretch marks. Marks often disappear after the
cause of the skin stretching is gone.

Avoiding rapid weight gain helps reduce stretch marks caused by obesity.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If stretch marks appear without clear cause, such as pregnancy or rapid weight
gain, call your health care provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms, including:

    * Is this the first time that you have developed stretch marks?
    * When did you first notice the stretch marks?
    * What medicines have you taken?
    * Have you used a cortisone skin cream?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

If the stretch marks are not caused by normal physical changes, tests may be
done. Tretinoin cream may help reduce stretch marks. Laser treatment may also
help. In very rare cases, surgery may be done.

## Alternative Names

Striae; Striae atrophica; Striae distensae

## Images

    * ![Striae in the popliteal fossa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1792t.jpg)Striae in the popliteal fossa
    * ![Striae on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2477t.jpg)Striae on the leg
    * ![Stria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8949t.jpg)Stria

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Abnormalities of
dermal fibrous and elastic tissue. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR,
Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 25.

Patterson JW. Disorders of collagen. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 11.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy2_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy
_Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

