Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001446.htm    
                                Description: Gianotti-Crosti syndrome is a childhood skin condition that may be accompanied by mild symptoms of fever and malaise. It may also be associated with hepatitis B and other viral infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gianotti-Crosti syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001446.htm

# Gianotti-Crosti syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gianotti-Crosti syndrome is a childhood skin condition that may be accompanied
by mild symptoms of fever and malaise. It may also be associated with
hepatitis B and other viral infections.

## Causes

Health care providers don't know the exact cause of this disorder. They do
know that it is linked with other infections.

In Italian children, Gianotti-Crosti syndrome is seen frequently with
hepatitis B. But this link is rarely seen in the United States. Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV, mononucleosis) is the virus most often associated with
acrodermatitis.

Other associated viruses include:

    * Cytomegalovirus
    * Coxsackie viruses
    * Parainfluenza virus
    * Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
    * Some types of live virus vaccines 

## Symptoms

Skin symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Rash or patch on skin, usually on the arms and legs
    * Brownish-red or copper-colored patch that is firm and flat on top
    * String of bumps may appear in a line
    * Generally not itchy
    * Rash looks the same on both sides of the body
    * Rash may appear on the palms and soles, but not on the back, chest, or belly area (this is one of the ways it is identified, by the absence of the rash from the trunk of the body) 

Other symptoms that may appear include:

    * Swollen abdomen
    * Swollen lymph nodes
    * Tender lymph nodes 

## Exams and Tests

The provider can diagnose this condition by looking at the skin and rash. The
liver, spleen, and lymph nodes may be swollen.

The following tests may be done to confirm the diagnosis or rule out other
conditions:

    * Bilirubin level
    * Hepatitis virus serology or hepatitis B surface antigen
    * Liver enzymes (liver function tests)
    * Screening for EBV antibodies
    * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

The disorder itself is not treated. Infections linked with this condition,
such as hepatitis B and Epstein-Barr, are treated. Cortisone creams and oral
antihistamines may help with itching and irritation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The rash usually disappears on its own in about 3 to 8 weeks without treatment
or complication. Associated conditions must be watched carefully.

## Possible Complications

Complications occur as a result of associated conditions, rather than as a
result of the rash.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has signs of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Papular acrodermatitis of childhood; Infantile acrodermatitis; Acrodermatitis
- infantile lichenoid; Acrodermatitis - papular infantile; Papulovesicular
acro-located syndrome

## Images

    * ![Gianotti-Crosti syndrome on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2766t.jpg)Gianotti-Crosti syndrome on the leg
    * ![Infectious mononucleosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17267t.jpg)Infectious mononucleosis

## References

Bender NR, Chiu YE. Eczematous disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 674.

Gelmetti C. Gianotti-Crosti syndrome. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones
J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 91.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hepatitis B](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisB2_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
B _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

