Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001915.htm    
                                Description: The information below is from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Death among children and adolescents

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001915.htm

# Death among children and adolescents

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The information below is from the US Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC).

Accidents (unintentional injuries) are, by far, the leading cause of death
among children and teens.

THE TOP THREE CAUSES OF DEATH BY AGE GROUP

0 to 1 year:

    * Developmental and genetic conditions that were present at birth
    * Conditions due to premature birth (short gestation)
    * Health problems of the mother during pregnancy

1 to 4 years:

    * Accidents (unintentional injuries)
    * Developmental and genetic conditions that were present at birth
    * Homicide 

5 to 14 years:

    * Accidents (unintentional injuries)
    * Cancer
    * Suicide

CONDITIONS PRESENT AT BIRTH

Some birth defects cannot be prevented. Other problems may be diagnosed during
pregnancy. These conditions, when recognized, may be prevented or treated
while the baby is still in the womb or right after birth.

Tests that may be done before or during pregnancyÂ include:

    * Amniocentesis
    * Chorionic villus sampling
    * Fetal ultrasound
    * Genetic screening of the parents
    * Medical histories and childbirth history of the parents

PREMATURITY AND LOW BIRTH WEIGHT

Death due to prematurity often results from a lack of prenatal care. If you
are pregnant and are not receiving prenatal care, call your health care
provider or local department of health. Most state health departments have
programs that provide prenatal care to mothers, even if they DO NOT have
insurance and are not able to pay.

All sexually active and pregnant teens should be educated about the importance
of prenatal care.

SUICIDE

It is important to watch teens for signs of stress, depression, and suicidal
behavior. Open communication between the teen and parents or other people of
trust is very important for preventing teen suicide.

HOMICIDE

Homicide is a complex issue that does not have a simple answer. Prevention
requires an understanding of the root causes and a willingness of the public
to change those causes.

AUTO ACCIDENTS

The automobile accounts for the largest number of accidental deaths. All
infants and children should use the proper child car seats, booster seats, and
seat belts.

Other top causes of accidental death are drowning, fire, falls, and poisoning.

## Alternative Names

Childhood and adolescent causes of death

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Child health.
www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/child-health.htm. Updated May 3, 2017. Accessed
October 22, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Deaths: final data for 2016.
National vital statistics reports. Vol. 67, Number 5.
www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr67/nvsr67_05.pdf. Updated July 26, 2018.
Accessed October 22, 2018.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![EstadÃ­sticas de
salud](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthStats_thumb.jpg)Health Statistics
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

