Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003818.htm    
                                Description: Enteroclysis is an imaging test of the small intestine. The test looks at how a liquid called contrast material moves through the small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enteroclysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003818.htm

# Enteroclysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enteroclysis is an imaging test of the small intestine. The test looks at how
a liquid called contrast material moves through the small intestine.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done in a radiology department. Depending on the need, x-ray, CT
scan, or MRI imaging is used.

The test involves the following:

    * The health care provider inserts a tube through your nose or mouth into your stomach and into the beginning of the small bowel.
    * Contrast material and air flows through the tube, and images are taken. 

The provider can watch on a monitor as the contrast moves through the bowel.

The goal of the study is to view all of the loops of small bowel. You may be
asked to change positions during the exam. The test may last a few hours,
because it takes a while for the contrast to move through all of the small
bowel.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your provider's instructions on how to prepare for the test, which may
include:

    * Drinking clear liquids for at least 24 hours before the test.
    * Not eating or drinking anything for several hours before the test. Your provider will tell you exactly how many hours.
    * Taking laxatives to clear the bowels.
    * Not taking certain medicines. Your provider will tell you which ones. DO NOT stop taking any medicines on your own. Ask your provider first.

If you are anxious about the procedure, you may be given a sedative before it
starts. You will be asked to remove all jewelry and wear a hospital gown. It
is best to leave jewelry and other valuables at home. You will be asked to
remove any removable dental work, such as appliances, bridges, or retainers.

If you are, or think you're pregnant, tell the provider before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The placement of the tube may be uncomfortable. The contrast material may
cause a feeling of abdominal fullness.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is performed to examine the small bowel. It is the most complete way
of telling if the small intestine is normal.

## Normal Results

There are no problems seen with the size or shape of the small intestine.
Contrast travels through the bowel at a normal rate without any sign of
blockage.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Many problems of the small intestine can be found with enteroclysis. Some of
these include:

    * Inflammation of the small bowel (such as Crohn disease)
    * Small bowel isn't absorbing nutrients normally (malabsorption)
    * Narrowing or stricture of the intestine
    * Small bowel blockage
    * Tumors of the small intestine 

## Risks

The radiation exposure may be greater with this test than with other types of
x-rays because of the length of time. But most experts feel that the risk is
low compared to the benefits.

Pregnant women and children are more sensitive to the risks of x-ray
radiation. Rare complications include:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines prescribed for the test (your provider can tell you which medicines)
    * Possible injury to bowel structures during the study 

Barium may cause constipation. Tell your provider if the barium has not passed
through your system by 2 or 3 days after the test, or if you feel constipated.

## Alternative Names

Small bowel enema; CT enteroclysis; Small bowel follow-through; Barium
enteroclysis; MR enteroclysis

## Images

    * ![Small intestine contrast injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9297t.jpg)Small intestine contrast injection

## References

Gourtsoyiannis N, Prassopoulos P, Daskalogiannaki M, McLaughlin P, Maher MM.
The duodenum and small intestine. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-
Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of
Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2015:chap 28.

Thomas AC. Imaging the small bowel. In: Sahani DV, Samir AE, eds. _Abdominal
Imaging_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

## Review Date 6/11/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Cancer _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

