Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001398.htm    
                                Description: Syringomyelia is a cyst-like collection of cereberospinal fluid (CSF) that forms in the spinal cord. Over time, it damages the spinal cord.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Syringomyelia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001398.htm

# Syringomyelia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Syringomyelia is a cyst-like collection of cereberospinal fluid (CSF) that
forms in the spinal cord. Over time, it damages the spinal cord.

## Causes

The fluid-filled cyst is called a syrinx. The spinal fluid buildup may be
caused by:

    * Birth defects (especially Chiari malformation, in which part of the brain pushes down onto the spinal cord at the base of the skull)
    * Spinal cord trauma
    * Tumors of the spinal cord 

The fluid-filled cyst usually begins in the neck area. It expands slowly,
putting pressure on the spinal cord and slowly causing damage.

Onset of syringomyelia is usually between 25 to 40 years old. Males are more
affected than females.

## Symptoms

If the condition is due to birth defects, there may be no symptoms until 30 to
40 years old. Symptoms of syringomyelia usually appear slowly and worsen over
many years. In the case of trauma, onset of symptoms may be as early as 2 to 3
months of age. If there are symptoms, they may include:

    * Headache
    * Scoliosis (in children)
    * Loss of muscle mass (wasting, atrophy), often in the arms and hands
    * Loss of reflexes in upper limbs
    * Increased reflexes in lower limbs
    * Spasms or tightness in the leg or hand and arm muscles
    * Muscle function loss, loss of ability to use arms or legs
    * Numbness that decreases the feeling of pain or temperature; lowers the ability to feel when the skin is being touched; occurs in the neck, shoulders, upper arms, and trunk in a cape-like pattern; and slowly gets worse over time
    * Pain down the arms, neck, or into the middle back or legs
    * Weakness (decreased muscle strength) in the arms or legs
    * Painless burn or injury of the hand
    * Difficulty walking or toe walking in children
    * Uncontrollable movements of the eyes (nystagmus)
    * Condition that affects the nerves to the eye and face (Horner syndrome)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms, focusing on the nervous system. Tests that may be done include:

    * MRI of the head and spine
    * Spinal CT scan with myelogram (may be done when an MRI is not possible)

## Treatment

There is no known effective treatment for syringomyelia. The goals of
treatment are to stop the spinal cord damage from getting worse and to improve
function.

Surgery may be needed to relieve pressure in the spinal cord. Physical and
occupational therapy may be needed to improve muscle function.

Ventriculoperitoneal shunting or syringosubarachnoid shunting may be needed.
This is a procedure in which a catheter (thin, flexible tube) is inserted to
drain the fluid buildup.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, the disorder may get worse very slowly. Over time, it may
cause severe disability.

Surgery usually stops the condition from getting worse. Nervous system
function will improve in about 30% of the people who have surgery.

## Possible Complications

Without treatment, the condition may lead to:

    * Loss of nervous system function
    * Permanent disability 

Possible complications of surgery include:

    * Infection
    * Other complications of surgery 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of syringomyelia.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this condition, other than avoiding injuries
to the spinal cord. Getting treated right away slows the disorder from getting
worse.

## Alternative Names

Syrinx

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19588t.jpg)Central nervous system

## References

Batzdorf U. Syringomyelia. In: Shen FH, Samartzis D, Fessler RG, eds.
_Textbook of the Cervical Spine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 29.

Benglis DM, Jea A, Vanni S, Shah AH, Green BA. Syringomyelia. In: Garfin SR,
Eismont FJ, Bell GR, Fischgrund JS, Bono CM, eds. _Rothman-Simeone and
Herkowitz's The Spine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 94.

Roguski M, Samdani AF, Hwang SW. Adult syringomyelia. In: Winn HR, ed.
_Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 301.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syringomyelia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syringomyelia_thumb.jpg)Syringomyelia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

