Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000294.htm    
                                Description: Salmonella enterocolitis is a bacterial infection in the lining of the small intestine that is caused by salmonella bacteria. It is a type of food poisoning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Salmonella enterocolitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000294.htm

# Salmonella enterocolitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Salmonella enterocolitis is a bacterial infection in the lining of the small
intestine that is caused by salmonella bacteria. It is a type of food
poisoning.

## Causes

Salmonella infection is one of the most common types of food poisoning. It
occurs when you swallow food or water that contains salmonella bacteria.

The salmonella germs may get into the food you eat in several ways.

You are more likely to get this type of infection if you:

    * Eat foods such as turkey, turkey dressing, chicken, or eggs that have not been cooked well or stored properly
    * Are around family members with a recent salmonella infection
    * Have been in or worked in a hospital, nursing home, or other long-term health facility
    * Have a pet iguana or other lizards, turtles, or snakes (reptiles and amphibians are carriers of salmonella)
    * Handle live poultry
    * Have a weakened immune system
    * Regularly used medicines that block acid production in the stomach
    * Have Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis
    * Used antibiotics in the recent past 

## Symptoms

The time between getting infected and having symptoms is 8 to 72 hours.
Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain, cramping, or tenderness
    * Chills
    * Diarrhea
    * Fever
    * Muscle pain
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. You may have a tender
abdomen and develop tiny pink spots, called rose spots, on your skin.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Complete blood count with differential
    * Test for specific antibodies called febrile/cold agglutinins
    * Stool culture for salmonella
    * Examination of stool for white blood cells 

## Treatment

The goal is to make you feel better and avoid dehydration. Dehydration means
your body does not have as much water and fluids as it should.

These things may help you feel better if you have diarrhea:

    * Drink 8 to 10 glasses of clear fluids every day. Water is best.
    * Drink at least 1 cup (240 milliliters) of liquid every time you have a loose bowel movement.
    * Eat small meals throughout the day instead of 3 big meals.
    * Eat some salty foods, such as pretzels, soup, and sports drinks.
    * Eat some high-potassium foods, such as bananas, potatoes without the skin, and watered-down fruit juices.

If your child has salmonella, it is important to keep them from getting
dehydrated.Â At first, try 1 ounce (2 tablespoons or 30 milliliters) of fluid
every 30 to 60 minutes.

    * Infants should continue to breastfeed and receive electrolyte replacement solutions as recommended by your child's provider.
    * You can use an over-the-counter drink, such as Pedialyte or Infalyte. Do not water down these drinks.
    * You can also try PedialyteÂ freezer pops.
    * Watered-down fruit juice or broth may also help.

Medicines that slow diarrhea are often not given because they may make the
infection last longer. If you have severe symptoms, your provider may
prescribe antibiotics if you:

    * Have diarrhea more than 9 or 10 times per day
    * Have a high fever
    * Need to be in the hospital

If you take water pills or diuretics, you may need to stop taking them when
you have diarrhea. Ask your provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In otherwise healthy people, symptoms should go away in 2 to 5 days, but they
may last for 1 to 2 weeks.

People who have been treated for salmonella may continue to shed the bacteria
in their stool for months to a year after the infection. Food handlers who
carry salmonella in their body can pass the infection to the people who eat
the food they have handled.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * There is blood or pus in your stools.
    * You have diarrhea and are unable to drink fluids due to nausea or vomiting.
    * You have a fever above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) and diarrhea.
    * You have signs of dehydration (thirst, dizziness, lightheadedness).
    * You have recently traveled to a foreign country and developed diarrhea.
    * Your diarrhea does not get better in 5 days, or it gets worse.
    * You have severe abdominal pain.

If your child has symptoms, call your provider if your child has:

    * A fever above 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) and diarrhea
    * Diarrhea that does not get better in 2 days, or it gets worse
    * Been vomiting for more than 12 hours (in a newborn under 3 months, you should call as soon as vomiting or diarrhea begin)
    * Reduced urine output, sunken eyes, sticky or dry mouth, or no tears when crying 

## Prevention

Learning how to prevent food poisoning can reduce the risk for this infection.
Follow these safety measures:

    * Properly handle and store foods.
    * Wash your hands when handling eggs, poultry, and other foods.
    * If you own a reptile, wear gloves when handling the animal or its feces because salmonella can easily pass to humans.

## Alternative Names

Salmonellosis; Nontyphoidal salmonella; Food poisoning - salmonella;
Gastroenteritis - salmonella

## Images

    * ![Salmonella typhi organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1048t.jpg)Salmonella typhi organism
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Salmonella
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalmonellaInfections_thumb.jpg)Salmonella
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

