Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001332.htm    
                                Description: Typhoid fever is an infection that causes diarrhea and a rash. It is most commonly caused by a bacteria called Salmonella typhi (S typhi).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Typhoid fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001332.htm

# Typhoid fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Typhoid fever is an infection that causes diarrhea and a rash. It is most
commonly caused by a bacteria called _Salmonella typhi_ ( _S typhi_ ).

## Causes

_S typhi_ is spread through contaminated food, drink, or water. If you eat or
drink something that is contaminated with the bacteria, the bacteria enter
your body. They travel into your intestines, and then into your blood. In the
blood, they travel to your lymph nodes, gallbladder, liver, spleen, and other
parts of the body.

Some people become carriers of _S typhi_ and continue to release the bacteria
in their stools for years, spreading the disease.

Typhoid fever is common in developing countries. Most cases in the United
States are brought in from other countries where typhoid fever is common.

## Symptoms

Early symptoms include fever, general ill-feeling, and abdominal pain. High
fever (103Â°F, or 39.5Â°C) or higher and severe diarrhea occur as the disease
gets worse.

Some people develop a rash called "rose spots," which are small red spots on
the abdomen and chest.

Other symptoms that occur include:

    * Bloody stools
    * Chills
    * Agitation, confusion, delirium, seeing or hearing things that are not there (hallucinations)
    * Difficulty paying attention (attention deficit)
    * Nosebleeds
    * Severe fatigue
    * Slow, sluggish, weak feeling 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

A complete blood count (CBC) will show a high number of white blood cells.

A blood culture during the first week of the fever can show _S typhi_
bacteria.

Other tests that can help diagnose this condition include:

    * ELISAÂ blood test to look for antibodies to the _S typhi_ bacteria
    * Fluorescent antibody study to look for substances that are specific toÂ _S typhi_ Â bacteria
    * Platelet count (platelet count may be low)
    * Stool culture

## Treatment

Fluids and electrolytes may be given by IV (into a vein) or you may be asked
to drink water with electrolyte packets.

Antibiotics are given to kill the bacteria. There are increasing rates of
antibiotic resistance throughout the world, so your provider will check
current recommendations before choosing an antibiotic.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms usually improve in 2 to 4 weeks with treatment. The outcome is likely
to be good with early treatment, but becomes poor if complications develop.

Symptoms may return if the treatment has not completely cured the infection.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may develop include:

    * Intestinal hemorrhage (severe GI bleeding)
    * Intestinal perforation
    * Kidney failure
    * Peritonitis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have any of the following:

    * You know you have been exposed to someone who has typhoid fever
    * You have been in an area where there are people who have typhoid fever and you develop symptoms of typhoid fever
    * You have had typhoid fever and the symptoms return
    * You develop severe abdominal pain, decreased urine output, or other new symptoms 

## Prevention

A vaccine is recommended for travel outside of the United States to places
where there is typhoid fever. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
website has information about where typhoid fever is common --
www.cdc.gov/typhoid-fever/index.html. Ask your provider if you should bring
electrolyte packets in case you get sick.

When traveling, drink only boiled or bottled water and eat well-cooked food.
Wash your hands thoroughly before eating.

Water treatment, waste disposal, and protecting the food supply from
contamination are important public health measures. Carriers of typhoid must
not be allowed to work as food handlers.

## Alternative Names

Enteric fever

## Images

    * ![Salmonella typhi organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1048t.jpg)Salmonella typhi organism
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Harris JB, Ryan ET. Enteric fever and other causes of fever and abdominal
symptoms. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 102.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Salmonella
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalmonellaInfections_thumb.jpg)Salmonella
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

