Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000122.htm    
                                Description: Having nausea (being sick to your stomach) and vomiting (throwing up) can be very difficult to go through.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When you have nausea and vomiting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000122.htm

# When you have nausea and vomiting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Having nausea (being sick to your stomach) and vomiting (throwing up) can be
very difficult to go through.

Use the information below to help you manage nausea and vomiting. Also follow
any instructions from your health care provider.

## Symptoms and Causes

Causes of nausea and vomiting may include any of the following:

    * Stomach illness or pregnancy (morning sickness).
    * Medical treatment, such as a cancer treatment.
    * Emotions such as severe worry or stress.

When you have nausea you do not want to eat. This can lead to unhealthy weight
loss. Vomiting can make you dehydrated (dried out), which can be dangerous.
Once you and your provider find the cause of your nausea or vomiting, you may
be asked to take medicine, change your diet, or try other things to make you
feel better.

## How to Treat Nausea and Vomiting

Sit quietly when you feel nauseated. Sometimes moving around can make nausea
worse.

To make sure your body has enough fluids try to drink 8 to 10 glasses of clear
liquids every day. Water is best. You can also sip fruit juices and flat soda
(leave the can or bottle open to get rid of the bubbles). Try sports drinks to
replace minerals and other nutrients you may be losing when you throw up.

Try to eat 6 to 8 small meals throughout the day, instead of 3 big meals:

    * Eat bland foods. Examples are crackers, English muffins, toast, baked chicken and fish, potatoes, noodles, and rice.
    * Eat foods with a lot of water in them. Try clear soups, popsicles, and Jell-O.
    * If you have a bad taste in your mouth, try rinsing with a solution of baking soda, salt, and warm water before you eat. Use 1 teaspoon (5 grams) baking soda, 3/4 teaspoon (4.5 grams) salt, and 4 cups (1 liter) warm water. Spit out after rinsing.
    * Sit up after you eat. DO NOT lie down.
    * Find a quiet, pleasant place to eat, free of odors and distractions. 

Other tips that may help:

    * Suck on hard candies or rinse your mouth with water after vomiting. Or you can rinse with the baking soda and salt solution above.
    * Try to get outside for some fresh air.
    * Watch a movie or TV to take your mind away from your nausea. 

Your provider may also recommend medicine:

    * Anti-nausea medicines usually start working 30 to 60 minutes after you take them.
    * When you come home after being treated with cancer drugs, you may want to use these medicines regularly for 1 or more days. Use them when nausea first starts. DO NOT wait until you feel very sick to your stomach. 

If you are vomiting after taking any of your medicines, tell your doctor or
nurse.

## Things You Should Avoid

You should avoid some specific kinds of foods when you have nausea and
vomiting:

    * Avoid greasy and processed foods, and foods that contain a lot of salt. Some of these are white breads, pastries, doughnuts, sausage, fast-food burgers, fried foods, chips, and many canned foods.
    * Avoid foods with strong smells.
    * Avoid caffeine, alcohol, and carbonated drinks.
    * Avoid very spicy foods.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you or your child:

    * Cannot keep any food or liquid down
    * Vomit three or more times in one day
    * Have nausea for more than 48 hours
    * Feel weakness
    * Have fever
    * Have stomach pain
    * Have not urinated for 8 hours or more 

## Alternative Names

Nausea - self-care; Vomiting - self-care

## References

Cappell MS. Gastrointestinal disorders during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

Hainsworth JD. Nausea and vomiting. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow
JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 42.

Malagelada J-R, Malagelada C. Nausea and vomiting. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 15.

## Read More

    * Bacterial gastroenteritis
    * Diarrhea - overview
    * Food poisoning
    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Kidney removal
    * Laparoscopic gallbladder removal
    * Large bowel resection
    * Open gallbladder removal
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Small bowel resection
    * Spleen removal
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Traveler's diarrhea diet
    * Viral gastroenteritis (stomach flu)

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal radiation - discharge
    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Brain radiation - discharge
    * Breast radiation - discharge
    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Clear liquid diet
    * Daily bowel care program
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * Full liquid diet
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Pelvic radiation - discharge
    * When you have diarrhea

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Gastroenteritis
    * Nausea and Vomiting

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

