Link: https://medlineplus.gov/juvenilearthritis.html    
                                Description: Juvenile arthritis or JA, causes joint swelling, pain, stiffness and loss of motion in children. Learn diagnosis and tests for JA.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Juvenile Arthritis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/juvenilearthritis.html

#  Juvenile Arthritis

Also called: Childhood arthritis, JRA, Juvenile idiopathic arthritis, Still's
disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Juvenile arthritis (JA) is arthritis that happens in children. It causes joint
swelling, pain, stiffness, and loss of motion. It can affect any joint, but is
more common in the knees, hands, and feet. In some cases it can affect
internal organs as well.

The most common type of JA that children get is juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
There are several other forms of arthritis affecting children.

One early sign of JA may be limping in the morning. Symptoms can come and go.
Some children have just one or two flare-ups. Others have symptoms that never
go away. JA can cause growth problems and eye inflammation in some children.

No one knows exactly what causes JA. Most types are autoimmune disorders. This
means that your immune system, which normally helps your body fight infection,
attacks your body's own tissues.

JA can be hard to diagnose. Your health care provider may do a physical exam,
lab tests, and x-rays. A team of providers usually treats JA. Medicines and
physical therapy can help maintain movement and reduce swelling and pain. They
may also help prevent and treat complications.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * Juvenile Arthritis (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish
    * Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (Nemours Foundation)
    * What Is Juvenile Arthritis? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Joint Aspiration (Arthrocentesis) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Rheumatoid Factor (RF) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Getting Kids on Board with Treatment (Arthritis Foundation)

## Related Issues

    * What Is a Pediatric Rheumatologist? (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * What People with Rheumatoid Arthritis Need to Know about Osteoporosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)

## Specifics

    * Overview of Juvenile Spondyloarthritis (Spondylitis Association of America)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: juvenile idiopathic arthritis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

    * Arthritis by the Numbers: Book of Trusted Facts and Figures (Arthritis Foundation) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Arthritis, Juvenile ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Interdisciplinary Management of Dentofacial Deformity in Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis.
    * Article: Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis for the Pediatric Orthopedic Surgeon.
    * Article: Intravenous dosing of tocilizumab in patients younger than two years of...
    * Juvenile Arthritis -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Arthritis Glossary (Boston University)

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Juvenile Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JuvenileArthritis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis

## Related Health Topics

    * Arthritis
    * Rheumatoid Arthritis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Juvenile Arthritis is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 31 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 8 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

