Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000252.htm    
                                Description: Viral gastroenteritis is present when a virus causes an infection of the stomach and intestine. The infection can lead to diarrhea and vomiting. It is sometimes called the &quot;stomach flu.&quot;     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Viral gastroenteritis (stomach flu)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000252.htm

# Viral gastroenteritis (stomach flu)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Viral gastroenteritis is present when a virus causes an infection of the
stomach and intestine. The infection can lead to diarrhea and vomiting. It is
sometimes called the "stomach flu."

## Causes

Gastroenteritis can affectÂ one person or a group of people who all ate the
same food or drank the same water. The germs may get into your system in many
ways:

    * Directly from food or water
    * By way of objects such as plates and eating utensils
    * Passed from person to personÂ by way ofÂ close contact

Many types of viruses can cause gastroenteritis. The most commonÂ viruses are:

    * Norovirus (Norwalk-like virus) is common among school-age children. It may also cause outbreaks in hospitals and on cruise ships.
    * Rotavirus is the leading cause in children. It can also infect adults who are exposed to children with the virus, and people living in nursing homes.
    * Astrovirus.
    * Enteric adenovirus.

People with the highest risk for a severe infection include young children,
older adults, and people who have a suppressed immune system.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often appear within 4 to 48 hours after contact with the virus.
Common symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Chills, clammy skin, or sweating
    * Fever
    * Joint stiffness or muscle pain Â Â Â 
    * Poor feeding
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look for signs of dehydration, including:

    * Dry or sticky mouth
    * Lethargy or coma (severe dehydration)
    * Low blood pressure
    * Low or no urine output, concentrated urine that looks dark yellow
    * Sunken soft spots (fontanelles) on the top of an infant's head
    * No tears
    * Sunken eyes 

Tests of stool samples may be used to identify the virus that is causing the
sickness. Most of the time, this test is not needed. A stool culture may be
done to find out if the problem is being caused by bacteria.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to make sure the body has enough water and fluids.
Fluids and electrolytes (salt and minerals) that are lost through diarrhea or
vomiting must be replaced by drinking extra fluids. Even if you are able to
eat, you should still drink extra fluids between meals.

    * Older children and adults can drink sports beverages such as Gatorade, but these should not be used for younger children. Instead, use the electrolyte and fluid replacement solutions or freezer pops available in food and drug stores.
    * Do NOT use fruit juice (including apple juice), sodas or cola (flat or bubbly), Jell-O, or broth. These liquids do not replace lost minerals and can make diarrhea worse.
    * Drink small amounts of fluid (2 to 4 oz. or 60 to 120 mL) every 30 to 60 minutes. Do not try to force down large amounts of fluid atÂ one time, which can cause vomiting. Use a teaspoon (5 milliliters) or syringe for an infant or small child.
    * Babies can continue to drink breast milk or formula along with extra fluids. You do NOT need to switch to a soy formula. 

Try eating small amounts of food frequently. Foods to try include:

    * Cereals, bread, potatoes, lean meats
    * Plain yogurt, bananas, fresh apples
    * Vegetables 

If you have diarrhea and are unable to drink or keep down fluids because of
nausea or vomiting, you may need fluids through a vein (IV). Infants and young
children are more likely to need IV fluids.

Parents should closely monitor the number of wet diapers an infant or young
child has. Fewer wet diapers is a sign that the infant needs more fluids.

People taking water pills (diuretics) who develop diarrhea may be told by
their provider to stop taking them until symptoms improve.Â However, DO NOT
stop taking any prescription medicine without first talking to your provider.

Antibiotics do not work for viruses.

You can buy medicines at the drugstore that can help stop or slow diarrhea.

    * Do not use these medicines without talking to your provider if you have bloody diarrhea, a fever, or if the diarrhea is severe.
    * Do not give these medicines to children. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For most people, the illness goes away in a few days without treatment.

## Possible Complications

Severe dehydrationÂ can occur in infants and young children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if diarrhea lasts for more than several days or if
dehydration occurs. You should also contact your provider if you or your child
has these symptoms:

    * Blood in the stool 
    * Confusion 
    * Dizziness 
    * Dry mouth 
    * Feeling faint 
    * Nausea 
    * No tears when crying 
    * No urine for 8 hours or more
    * Sunken appearance to the eyes 
    * Sunken soft spot on an infant's head (fontanelle) 

## Prevention

Most viruses and bacteria are passed from person to person by unwashed hands.
The best way to prevent stomach flu is to handle food properly and wash your
hands thoroughly after using the toilet.

A vaccine to prevent rotavirus infection is recommended for infants starting
at age 2 months.

## Alternative Names

Rotavirus infection - gastroenteritis; Norwalk virus; Gastroenteritis - viral;
Stomach flu; Diarrhea - viral; Loose stools - viral; Upset stomach - viral

## Patient Instructions

    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Bass DM. Rotaviruses, caliciviruses, and astroviruses. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 265.

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

Dupont HL. Acute infectious diarrhea in immunocompetent adults. _N Engl J
Med_. 2014; 370:(16)1532-1540. PMID: 24738670
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24738670.

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Hanes CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _SleisengerÂ and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 4/5/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gastroenteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gastroenteritis_thumb.jpg)Gastroenteritis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

