Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000121.htm    
                                Description: Diarrhea is the passage of loose or watery stool. For some, diarrhea is mild and will go away within a few days. For others, it may last longer. It can make you lose too much fluid (dehydrated) and feel    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When you have diarrhea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000121.htm

# When you have diarrhea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diarrhea is the passage of loose or watery stool. For some, diarrhea is mild
and will go away within a few days. For others, it may last longer. It can
make you lose too much fluid (dehydrated) and feel weak. It can also lead to
unhealthy weight loss.

The stomach flu is a common cause of diarrhea. Medical treatments, such as
antibiotics and some cancer treatments can also cause diarrhea.

## How to Relieve Diarrhea

These things may help you feel better if you have diarrhea:

    * Drink 8 to 10 glasses of clear fluids every day. Water is best.
    * Drink at least 1 cup (240 milliliters) of liquid every time you have a loose bowel movement.
    * Eat small meals throughout the day, instead of 3 big meals.
    * Eat some salty foods, such as pretzels, soup, and sports drinks.
    * Eat some high potassium foods, such as bananas, potatoes without the skin, and fruit juices. 

Ask your health care provider if you should take a multivitamin or drink
sports drinks to boost your nutrition. Also ask about taking a fiber
supplement, such as Metamucil, to add bulk to your stools.

Your provider may also recommend a special medicine for diarrhea. Take this
medicine as you have been told to take it.

## Eating When you Have Diarrhea

You can bake or broil beef, pork, chicken, fish, or turkey. Cooked eggs are
also OK. Use low-fat milk, cheese, or yogurt.

If you have very severe diarrhea, you may need to stop eating or drinking
dairy products for a few days.

Eat bread products made from refined, white flour. Pasta, white rice, and
cereals such as cream of wheat, farina, oatmeal, and cornflakes are OK. You
may also try pancakes and waffles made with white flour, and cornbread. But
don't add too much honey or syrup.

You should eat vegetables, including carrots, green beans, mushrooms, beets,
asparagus tips, acorn squash, and peeled zucchini. Cook them first. Baked
potatoes are OK. In general, removing seeds and skins is best.

You can include desserts and snacks such as fruit-flavored gelatin, fruit-
flavored ice pops, cakes, cookies, or sherbet.

## Things you Should Avoid Eating or Drinking

You should avoid certain kinds of foods when you have diarrhea, including
fried foods and greasy foods.

Avoid fruits and vegetables that can cause gas, such as broccoli, peppers,
beans, peas, berries, prunes, chickpeas, green leafy vegetables, and corn.

Avoid caffeine, alcohol, and carbonated drinks.

Limit or cut out milk and other dairy products if they are making your
diarrhea worse or causing gas and bloating.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * The diarrhea gets worse or does not get better in 2 days for an infant or child, or 5 days for adults
    * Stools with an unusual odor or color
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Blood or mucus in your stool
    * A fever that does not go away
    * Stomach pain 

## Alternative Names

Diarrhea - self-care; Diarrhea - gastroenteritis

## References

Bobak DA, Guerrant RL. Nausea, vomiting, and noninflammatory diarrhea. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 100.

Shiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal radiation - discharge
    * Brain radiation - discharge
    * Breast radiation - discharge
    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Clear liquid diet
    * Daily bowel care program
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Eating extra calories when sick - children
    * Full liquid diet
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Pelvic radiation - discharge
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diarrhea
    * Gastroenteritis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

