Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000475.htm    
                                Description: Norovirus is a virus (germ) that causes an infection of the stomach and intestines. Norovirus can spread easily in health care settings. Read on to learn how to prevent getting infected with norovirus    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Norovirus - hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000475.htm

# Norovirus - hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Norovirus is a virus (germ) that causes an infection of the stomach and
intestines. Norovirus can spread easily in health care settings. Read on to
learn how to prevent getting infected with norovirus if you're in the
hospital.

## What is Norovirus?

Many viruses belong to the norovirus group, and they spread very easily.
Outbreaks in health care settings occur rapidly and can be hard to control.

## More About Norovirus

Symptoms start within 24 to 48 hours of infection, and can last for 1 to 3
days. Diarrhea and vomiting can be severe, leading the body to not have enough
fluids (dehydration).

Anyone can become infected with norovirus. Hospital patients who are very old,
very young, or very ill are most harmed by norovirus illnesses.

Norovirus infection can occur at any time during the year. It can be spread
when people:

    * Touch objects or surfaces that have been contaminated, then put their hands in their mouths. (Contaminated means the norovirus germ is present.)
    * Eat or drink something contaminated. 

It is possible to be infected with norovirus more than once in your life.

Most cases do not need testing. In some cases, testing for norovirus is done
to understand an outbreak, such as in a hospital setting. This test is done by
collecting a stool or vomit sample and sending it to a lab.

## Treating Norovirus

Norovirus illnesses are not treated with antibiotics because antibiotics kill
bacteria, not viruses. Receiving plenty of extra fluids through a vein (IV, or
intravenous) is the best way to prevent the body from becoming dehydrated.

Symptoms most often resolve in 2 to 3 days. Although people may feel better,
they can still spread the virus to others for up to 72 hours (in some cases 1
to 2 weeks) after their symptoms have resolved.

## Preventing the Spread of Norovirus

Hospital staff and visitors should always stay home if they feel sick or have
a fever, diarrhea, or nausea. This helps protect others in the hospital.
Remember, what may seem like a small health problem for you can be a big
health problem for someone in the hospital who is already sick.

Even when there is no norovirus outbreak, staff and visitors must clean their
hands often:

    * Washing hands with soap and water prevents the spread of any infection.
    * Alcohol-based hand sanitizers can be used between hand washing.

People infected with norovirus are placed in contact isolation. This is a way
to create barriers between people and germs.

    * It prevents the spread of germs among the staff, patient, and visitors.
    * Isolation will last 48 to 72 hours after symptoms have gone way.

Staff and health care providers must:

    * Use proper garments, such as isolation gloves and a gown when entering an isolated patient's room.
    * Wear a mask when there is a chance of splashing bodily fluids.
    * Always clean and disinfect surfaces patients have touched using a bleach-based cleaner.
    * Limit moving patients to other areas of the hospital.
    * Keep patient's belongings in special bags and throw away any disposable items.

Anyone visiting a patient who has an isolation sign outside their door should
stop at the nurses' station before entering the patient's room.

## Alternative Names

Gastroenteritis - norovirus; Colitis - norovirus; Hospital acquired infection
- norovirus

## References

Dolin R, Treanor JJ. Noroviruses and sapoviruses (caliciviruses). In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 178.

Franco MA, Greenberg HB. Rotaviruses, noroviruses, and other gastrointestinal
viruses. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 380.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Gastroenteritis
    * Norovirus Infections

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

