Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000254.htm    
                                Description: Bacterial gastroenteritis occurs when there is an infection of your stomach and intestines. This is due to bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bacterial gastroenteritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000254.htm

# Bacterial gastroenteritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bacterial gastroenteritis occurs when there is an infection of your stomach
and intestines. This is due to bacteria.

## Causes

Bacterial gastroenteritis can affect one person or a group of people who all
ate the same food. It is commonly called food poisoning. It often occurs after
eating at picnics, school cafeterias, large social gatherings, or restaurants.

Your food may get infected in many ways:

    * Meat or poultry may come into contact with bacteria when the animal is processed.
    * Water that is used during growing or shipping may contain animal or human waste.
    * Improper food handling or preparation may occur in grocery stores, restaurants, or homes. 

Food poisoning often occurs from eating or drinking:

    * Food prepared by someone who did not wash their hands properly
    * Food prepared using unclean cooking utensils, cutting boards, or other tools
    * Dairy products or food containing mayonnaise (such as coleslaw or potato salad) that have been out of the refrigerator too long
    * Frozen or refrigerated foods that are not stored at the proper temperature or are not reheated properly
    * Raw shellfish such as oysters or clams
    * Raw fruits or vegetables that have not been washed well
    * Raw vegetable or fruit juices and dairy products (look for the word "pasteurized" to make sure the food is safe to eat or drink)
    * Undercooked meats or eggs
    * Water from a well or stream, or city or town water that has not been treated 

Many different types of bacteria can cause bacterial gastroenteritis,
including:

    *  _Campylobacter jejuni_
    *  _E coli_
    * Salmonella
    * Shigella
    * Staphylococcus
    * Yersinia 

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the type of bacteria that caused the sickness. All types of
food poisoning cause diarrhea. Other symptoms include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloody stools
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Fever

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you for signs of food poisoning. These
may include pain in the stomach and signs your body does not have as much
water and fluids as it should (dehydration).

Lab tests may be done on the food or a stool sample to find out what germ is
causing your symptoms. However, these tests do not always show the cause of
the diarrhea.

Tests may also be done to look for white blood cells in the stool. This is a
sign of infection.

## Treatment

You will most likely recover from the most common types of bacterial
gastroenteritis in a couple of days. The goal is to make you feel better and
avoid dehydration.

Drinking enough fluids and learning what to eat will help ease symptoms. You
may need to:

    * Manage the diarrhea
    * Control nausea and vomiting
    * Get plenty of rest 

If you have diarrhea and are unable to drink or keep down fluids because of
nausea or vomiting, you may need fluids through a vein (IV). Young children
may be at extra risk of getting dehydrated.

If you take diuretics ("water pills"), or ACE inhibitors for high blood
pressure, talk to your provider. You may need to stop taking these medicines
while you have diarrhea. Never stop or change your medicines without first
talking to your provider.

Antibiotics are not given very often for most common types of bacterial
gastroenteritis. If diarrhea is very severe or you have a weak immune system,
antibiotics may be needed.

You can buy medicines at the drugstore that can help stop or slow diarrhea. Do
not use these medicines without talking to your provider if you have:

    * Bloody diarrhea
    * Severe diarrhea
    * FeverÂ 

Do not give these medicines to children.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people get better in a few days without treatment.

Certain rare types of _E coli_ can cause:

    * Severe anemia
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding
    * Kidney failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Blood or pus in your stools, or your stool is black
    * Diarrhea with a fever above 101Â°F (38.33Â°C) or 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) in children
    * Recently traveled to a foreign country and developed diarrhea
    * Stomach pain that does not go away after a bowel movement
    * Symptoms of dehydration (thirst, dizziness, lightheadedness) 

Also call if:

    * The diarrhea gets worse or does not get better in 2 days for an infant or child, or 5 days for adults
    * A child over 3 months old has been vomiting for more than 12 hours; in younger babies, call as soon as vomiting or diarrhea begins 

## Prevention

Take precautions to prevent food poisoning.

## Alternative Names

Infectious diarrhea - bacterial gastroenteritis; Acute gastroenteritis;
Gastroenteritis - bacterial

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

Mody RK, Griffin PM. Foodborne disease. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 103.

Nguyen T, Akhtar S. Gastroenteritis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 84.

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gastroenteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gastroenteritis_thumb.jpg)Gastroenteritis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

