Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003465.htm    
                                Description: Lipase is a protein (enzyme) released by the pancreas into the small intestine. It helps the body absorb fat. This test is used to measure the amount of the lipase in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lipase test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003465.htm

# Lipase test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lipase is a protein (enzyme) released by the pancreas into the small
intestine. It helps the body absorb fat. This test is used to measure the
amount of the lipase in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of blood will be taken from a vein.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT eat for 8 hours before the test.

Your health care provider may ask you to stop taking medicines that may affect
the test, such as:

    * Bethanechol
    * Birth control pills
    * Cholinergic medicines
    * Codeine
    * Indomethacin
    * Meperidine
    * Methacholine
    * Morphine
    * Thiazide diuretics

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted to draw blood.
There may be some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn. Veins and
arteries vary in size, so it may be harder to take a blood sample from one
person than another.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to check for disease of the pancreas, most often acute
pancreatitis.

Lipase appears in the blood when the pancreas is damaged.

## Normal Results

In general, normal results are 0 to 160 units per liter (U/L) or 0 to 2.67
microkat/L (Âµkat/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
laboratories use different measurement methods. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal levels may be due to:

    * Blockage of the bowel (bowel obstruction)
    * Celiac disease
    * Duodenal ulcer
    * Cancer of the pancreas
    * Pancreatitis
    * Pancreatic pseudocyst

This test may also be done for familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency.

## Risks

There is very little risk from your blood taken.

Other uncommon risks may include:

    * Bleeding from the needle puncture site
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Blood collecting under the skin
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Pancreatitis - blood lipase

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Crockett SD, Wani S, Gardner TB, Falck-Ytter Y, Barkun AN; American
Gastroenterological Association Institute Clinical Guidelines Committee.
American Gastroenterological Association Institute guideline on initial
management of acute pancreatitis. _Gastroenterology_. 2018;154(4):1096-1101.
PMID: 29409760 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29409760.

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

Tenner S, Steinberg WM. Acute pancreatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 1/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gastroenteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gastroenteritis_thumb.jpg)Gastroenteritis
_Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

