Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000667.htm    
                                Description: CMV gastroenteritis/colitis is inflammation of the stomach or intestine due to infection with cytomegalovirus (CMV).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CMV - gastroenteritis/colitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000667.htm

# CMV - gastroenteritis/colitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CMV gastroenteritis/colitis is inflammation of the stomach or intestine due to
infection with cytomegalovirus (CMV).

This same virus can also cause:

    * Lung infection
    * Infection at the back of the eye
    * Infections of a baby while still in the womb

## Causes

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a herpes-type virus. It is related to the virus that
causes chickenpox.

Infection with CMV is very common. It is spread by saliva, urine, respiratory
droplets, sexual contact, and blood transfusions. Most people are exposed at
some point, but most of the time, the virus produces mild or no symptoms in
healthy people.

Serious CMV infections can occur in people with weakened immune systems due
to:

    * AIDS
    * Chemotherapy treatment for cancer
    * During or after bone marrow or organ transplant
    * Ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease

Rarely, serious CMV infection involving the GI tract has occurred in people
with a healthy immune system.

## Symptoms

Gastrointestinal CMV disease may affectÂ one area or the entire body. Ulcers
can occur in the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or colon. These ulcers
are associated with symptoms such as:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Difficulty swallowing or pain with swallowing
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting

When the intestines are involved, the ulcers may cause:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloody stools
    * Diarrhea
    * Fever
    * Weight loss

More severe infections can result in gastrointestinal bleeding or a hole
through the wall of the bowel.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Barium enema
    * Colonoscopy
    * Upper endoscopy (EGD) 
    * Stool culture to rule out other causes of infection
    * Upper GI and small bowel series

Laboratory tests will be done on a sample of tissue taken from your stomach or
intestine. The tests, such as a gastric or intestinal tissue culture or
biopsy, determine if the virus is in the tissue.

A CMV serology test is done to look for antibodies to the CMV virus in your
blood.

Another blood test that looks for the presence and number of virus particles
in the blood can also be done.

## Treatment

Treatment is meant to control the infection and relieve symptoms.

Medicines to fight the virus (antiviral medicines) are prescribed. The
medicines may be given through a vein (IV), and sometimes by mouth, for
several weeks. The most commonly used medicines are ganciclovir and
valganciclovir, and foscarnet.

In some cases, long-term therapy may be needed. A medicine called CMV
hyperimmune globulin may be used when other drugs don't work.

Other medicines may include:

    * Drugs to prevent or reduce diarrhea
    * Painkillers (analgesics) 

Nutritional supplements or nutrition given through a veinÂ (IV) may be used to
treat muscle loss due to the disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In people with a healthy immune system, symptoms go away without treatment in
most cases.

Symptoms are more severe in those with a weakened immune system. The outcome
depends on how severe the immune system deficiency and the CMV infection are.

People with AIDS may have a worse outcome than those with a weakened immune
system due to another reason.

CMV infection typically affects the entire body, even if only gastrointestinal
symptoms are present. How well a person does depends on how well the antiviral
drugs work.

## Possible Complications

The drugs used to fight the virus may cause side effects. The type of side
effect depends on the specific drug used. For example, the drug ganciclovir
may lower your white blood cell count. Another drug, foscarnet, may lead to
kidney problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of CMV
gastroenteritis/colitis.

## Prevention

There is a high risk of CMV infection in people who receive an organ
transplant from a CMV-positive donor. Taking the antiviral drugs ganciclovir
(Cytovene) and valganciclovir (Valcyte) by mouth before the transplant can
lower your chance of getting a new infection or reactivating an old infection.

People with AIDS who are effectively treated with highly active antiretroviral
therapy are much less likely to get a CMV infection.

## Alternative Names

Colitis - cytomegalovirus; Gastroenteritis - cytomegalovirus; Gastrointestinal
CMV disease

## Images

    * ![Gastrointestinal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17115t.jpg)Gastrointestinal anatomy
    * ![Stomach and stomach lining](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8731t.jpg)Stomach and stomach lining
    * ![CMV \(cytomegalovirus\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17110t.jpg)CMV (cytomegalovirus)

## References

Crumpacker CS. Cytomegalovirus (CMV). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 140.

Larson AM, McDonald GB. Gastrointestinal and hepatic complications of solid
organ and hematopoietic cell transplantation. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 35.

Wilcox CM. Gastrointestinal consequences of infection with human
immunodeficiency virus. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cytomegalovirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CytomegalovirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Cytomegalovirus
Infections _Read more_

![Gastroenteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gastroenteritis_thumb.jpg)Gastroenteritis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

