Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007227.htm    
                                Description: Apnea is breathing that slows down or stops from any cause. Apnea of prematurity refers to short episodes of stopped breathing in babies who were born before 37 weeks of pregnancy (premature birth).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Apnea of prematurity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007227.htm

# Apnea of prematurity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Apnea is breathing that slows down or stops from any cause. Apnea of
prematurity refers to short episodes of stopped breathing in babies who were
born before 37 weeks of pregnancy (premature birth).

Most premature babies have some degree of apnea.

## Causes

There are several reasons why newborns, in particular those who were born
early, may have apnea, including:

    * If their brain is not fully developed
    * If the muscles that keep the airway open are weak 

Other stresses in a sick or premature baby may worsen apnea, including:

    * Anemia
    * Feeding problems
    * Heart or lung problems
    * Infection
    * Low oxygen levels
    * Temperature problems 

## Symptoms

The breathing pattern of newborns is not always regular and may be called
"periodic breathing." This pattern is even more likely in newborns born early
(preemies).

This irregular pattern is felt to be normal, but also thought of as immature.

It consists of short episodes (about 3 seconds) of either shallow breathing or
stopped breathing (apnea). These episodes are followed by periods of regular
breathing lasting 10 to 18 seconds.

Apnea episodes that last longer than 20 seconds are considered serious. The
baby may also have a:

    * Drop in heart rate. This heart rate drop is called bradycardia or, sometimes, a "brady."
    * Drop in oxygen level (oxygen saturation). This is called desaturation or, sometimes a "desat." 

## Exams and Tests

These babies will be placed on monitors in the hospital.

    * The monitors keep track of their breathing, heart rate, and oxygen levels. 
    * Apnea, drop in heart rate, or drop in oxygen level can set off the alarms on these monitors. 

Drops in heart rate and oxygen levels may occur for other reasons than apnea
(such as passing stool or moving around), so the monitor tracings are most
often reviewed by the health care team.

## Treatment

How apnea is treated depends on:

    * The cause
    * How often it occurs
    * Severity of episodes 

Babies who are otherwise healthy and sometimes have few minor episodes are
simply watched. In these cases, the episodes go away when the babies are
gently touched or "stimulated" during periods when breathing stops.

Babies who are well, but who are very premature and/or have many apnea
episodes, may be given caffeine. This will help make their breathing pattern
more regular. Sometimes, the nurse will change a baby's position, use suction
to remove fluid or mucus from the mouth or nose, or use a bag and mask to help
with breathing.

Breathing can be assisted by:

    * Proper positioning
    * Slower feeding time
    * Oxygen
    * Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
    * Breathing machine (ventilator) in extreme cases 

Some infants who continue to have apnea but are otherwise mature and healthy
will be discharged from the hospital on a home apnea monitor, with or without
caffeine, until they have outgrown their immature breathing pattern.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Apnea is common in premature babies. Most babies have normal outcomes. Mild
apnea does not appear to have long-term effects. However, preventing multiple
or severe episodes is better for the baby over the long-term.

Apnea of prematurity most often goes away as the baby approaches their "due
date." In some cases, this may last as long as the 44th week, such as in
infants who were born very prematurely.

## Alternative Names

Apnea - newborns; AOP; As and Bs; A/B/D; Blue spell - newborns; Dusky spell -
newborns; Spell - newborns; Apnea - neonatal

## Images

    * ![Apnea monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21727t.jpg)Apnea monitor

## References

Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N. Respiratory tract disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Martin RJ. Pathophysiology of apnea of prematurity. In: Polin RA, Abman SH,
Rowitch DH, Benitz WE, Fox WW, eds. _Fetal and Neonatal Physiology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 157.

Patrinos ME. Neonatal apnea and the foundation of respiratory control. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
75.

## Review Date 6/13/2018 12:00:00 AM

Updated by: SKB

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea_thumb.jpg)Sleep Apnea
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

