Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001916.htm    
                                Description: Positive airway pressure (PAP) treatment uses a machine to pump air under pressure into the airway of the lungs. This helps keep the windpipe open during sleep. The forced air delivered by CPAP (continuous    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Positive airway pressure treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001916.htm

# Positive airway pressure treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Positive airway pressure (PAP) treatment uses a machine to pump air under
pressure into the airway of the lungs. This helps keep the windpipe open
during sleep. The forced air delivered by CPAP (continuous positive airway
pressure) prevents episodes of airway collapse that block the breathing in
people with obstructive sleep apnea and other breathing problems.

## Information

WHO SHOULD USE PAP

PAP can successfully treat most people with obstructive sleep apnea. It is
safe and works well for people of all ages, including children. If you only
have mild sleep apnea and do not feel very sleepy during the day, you may not
need it.

After using PAP regularly, you may notice:

    * Better concentration and memory
    * Feeling more alert and less sleepy during the day
    * Improved sleep for your bed partner
    * Being more productive at work
    * Less anxiety and depression and a better mood
    * Normal sleep patterns
    * Lower blood pressure (in people with high blood pressure) 

Your health care provider will prescribe the type of PAP machine that targets
your problem:

    * Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) provides a gentle and steady pressure of air in your airway to keep it open.
    * Autotitrating (adjustable) positive airway pressure (APAP) changes pressure throughout the night, based on your breathing patterns.
    * Bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP or BIPAP) has a higher pressure when you breathe in and lower pressure when you breathe out. 

BiPAP is useful for children and adults who have:

    * Airways that collapse while sleeping, making it hard to breathe freely
    * Decreased air exchange in the lung
    * Muscle weakness that makes it difficult to breathe, due to conditions such as muscular dystrophy

PAP or BiPAP may also be used by people who have:

    * Respiratory failure
    * Central sleep apnea
    * COPD
    * Heart failure

HOW PAP WORKS

When using a PAP setup:

    * You wear a mask over your nose or nose and mouth while you sleep.
    * The mask is connected by a hose to a small machine that sits at the side of your bed.
    * The machine pumps air under pressure through the hose and mask and into your airway while you sleep. This helps keep your airway open. 

You may start to use PAP while you are in a sleep center for the night.

    * Your provider will help choose the mask that fits you best.
    * They will adjust the settings on the machine while you are asleep.
    * The settings will be adjusted based on the severity of your sleep apnea. 

If your symptoms don't improve after you're on PAP treatment, the settings on
the machine may need to be changed. Your provider may teach you how to adjust
the settings at home. Or, you may need to go to the sleep center to have it
adjusted.

GETTING USED TO THE MACHINE

It can take time to get used to using the PAP setup. The first few nights are
often the hardest and you may not sleep well.

If you are having problems, you may be tempted not to use the machine for the
whole night. But, you will get used to it more quickly if you use the machine
for the entire night.

When using the setup for the first time, you may have:

    * A feeling of being closed in (claustrophobia)
    * Chest muscle discomfort, which often goes away after awhile
    * Eye irritation
    * Redness and sores over the bridge of your nose
    * Runny or stuffed-up nose
    * Sore or dry mouth
    * Nosebleeds
    * Upper respiratory infections 

Many of these problems can be helped or prevented.

    * Ask your provider about using a mask that is lightweight and cushioned. Some masks are used only around or inside the nostrils.
    * Make sure the mask fits correctly so that it does not leak air. It should not be too tight or too loose.
    * Try nasal salt water sprays for a stuffy nose.
    * Use a humidifier to help with dry skin or nasal passages.
    * Keep your equipment clean.
    * Place your machine underneath your bed to limit noise.
    * Most machines are quiet, but if you notice sounds that make it hard to sleep, tell your provider. 

Your provider can lower the pressure on the machine and then increase it again
at a slow pace. Some new machines can automatically adjust to the right
pressure.

## Alternative Names

Continuous positive airway pressure; CPAP; Bilevel positive airway pressure;
BiPAP; Autotitrating positive airway pressure; APAP; nCPAP; Non-invasive
positive pressure ventilation; NIPPV; Non-invasive ventilation; NIV; OSA -
CPAP; Obstructive sleep apnea - CPAP

## Images

    * ![Nasal CPAP](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9685t.jpg)Nasal CPAP

## References

Freedman N. Positive airway pressure treatment for obstructive sleep apnea.
In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 115.

Kimoff RJ. Obstructive sleep apnea. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 88.

## Review Date 1/15/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea_thumb.jpg)Sleep Apnea
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

