Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003997.htm    
                                Description: &#10;Central sleep apnea is a sleep disorder in which breathing stops over and over during sleep.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Central sleep apnea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003997.htm

# Central sleep apnea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Central sleep apnea is a sleep disorder in which breathing stops over and over
during sleep.

## Causes

Central sleep apnea results when the brain temporarily stops sending signals
to the muscles that control breathing.

The condition often occurs in people who have certain medical problems. For
example, it can develop in someone who has a problem with an area of the brain
called the brainstem, which controls breathing.

Conditions that can cause or lead to central sleep apnea include:

    * Problems that affect the brainstem, including brain infection, stroke, or conditions of the cervical spine (neck)
    * Severe obesity
    * Certain medicines, such as narcotic painkillers

If the apnea is not associated with another disease, it is called idiopathic
central sleep apnea.

A condition called Cheyne-Stokes respiration can affect people with severe
heart failure and can be associated with central sleep apnea. The breathing
pattern involves alternating deep and heavy breathing with shallow, or even
notÂ breathing, usually while sleeping.

Central sleep apnea is not the same as obstructive sleep apnea. With
obstructive sleep apnea, breathing stops and starts because the airway is
narrowed or blocked. But a person can have both conditions, such as with a
medical problem called obesity hypoventilation syndrome.

## Symptoms

People with central sleep apnea have episodes of disrupted breathing during
sleep.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Chronic fatigue
    * Daytime sleepiness
    * Morning headaches
    * Restless sleep

Other symptoms may occur if the apnea is due to a problem with the nervous
system. Symptoms depend onÂ theÂ parts of the nervous system that are
affected,Â and may include:

    * Shortness of breath
    * Swallowing problems
    * Voice changes
    * Weakness or numbness throughout the body

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests will be done to
diagnose an underlying medical condition. A sleep study (polysomnography) can
confirm sleep apnea.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Echocardiogram
    * Lung function testing
    * MRI of the brain, spine, or neck
    * Blood tests, such as arterial blood gas levels

## Treatment

Treating the condition that is causing central sleep apnea can help manage
symptoms. For example, if central sleep apnea is due to heart failure, the
goal is to treat the heart failure itself.

Devices used during sleep to aid breathing may be recommended. These include
nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), bilevel positive airway
pressure (BiPAP) or adaptive servo-ventilation (ASV). Some types of central
sleep apnea are treated with medicines that stimulate breathing.

Oxygen treatment may help ensure the lungs get enough oxygen while sleeping.

If narcotic medicine is causing the apnea, the dosage may need to be lowered
or the medicine changed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the medical condition causing central sleep apnea.

The outlook is usually favorable for people with idiopathic central sleep
apnea.

## Possible Complications

Complications may result from the underlying disease causing the central sleep
apnea.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of sleep apnea. Central sleep apnea is
usually diagnosed in people who are already severely ill.

## Alternative Names

Sleep apnea - central; Obesity - central sleep apnea; Cheyne-Stokes - central
sleep apnea; Heart failure - central sleep apnea

## References

Redline S. Sleep-disordered breathing and cardiac disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 87.

Ryan CM, Bradley TD. Central sleep apnea. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 89.

Zinchuk AV, Thomas RJ. Central sleep apnea: diagnosis and management. In:
Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 110.

## Review Date 7/15/2019

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea_thumb.jpg)Sleep Apnea
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

