Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000811.htm    
                                Description: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a problem in which your breathing pauses during sleep. This occurs because of narrowed or blocked airways.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Obstructive sleep apnea - adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000811.htm

# Obstructive sleep apnea - adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a problem in which your breathing pauses
during sleep. This occurs because of narrowed or blocked airways.

## Causes

When you sleep, all of the muscles in your body become more relaxed. This
includes the muscles that help keep your throat open so air can flow into your
lungs.

Normally, your throat remains open enough during sleep to let air pass by.
Some people have a narrow throat. When the muscles in their upper throat relax
during sleep, the tissues close in and block the airway. This stop in
breathing is called apnea.

Loud snoring is a telltale symptom of OSA. Snoring is caused by air squeezing
through the narrowed or blocked airway. Not everyone who snores has sleep
apnea though.

Other factors also may increase your risk:

    * A lower jaw that is short compared to your upper jaw
    * Certain shapes of the roof of your mouth (palate) or airway that cause it to collapse more easily
    * Large neck or collar size, 17 inches (43 centimeters) or more in men and 16 inches (41 centimeters) or more in women
    * Large tongue, which may fall back and block the airway
    * Obesity
    * Large tonsils and adenoids that can block the airway 
![Obstructive sleep
apnea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9701.jpg)

Sleeping on your back can also cause your airway to become blocked or
narrowed.

Central sleep apnea is another sleep disorder during which breathing can stop.
It occurs when the brain temporarily stops sending signals to the muscles that
control breathing.

## Symptoms

If you have OSA, you usually begin snoring heavily soon after falling asleep.

    * The snoring often becomes very loud.
    * Snoring is interrupted by a long silent period while your breathing stops.
    * The silence is followed by a loud snort and gasp, as you attempt to breathe.
    * This pattern repeats throughout the night. 

Most people with OSA do not know their breathing starts and stops during the
night. Usually, a sleep partner or other family members hear the loud snoring,
gasping, and snorting. Snoring can be loud enough to hear through walls.
Sometimes, people with OSA wake up gasping for air.

People with sleep apnea may:

    * Wake up unrefreshed in the morning
    * Feel sleepy or drowsy throughout the day
    * Act grumpy, impatient, or irritable
    * Be forgetful
    * Fall asleep while working, reading, or watching TV
    * Feel sleepy while driving, or even fall asleep while driving
    * Have hard-to-treat headaches 

Other problems that may occur include:

    * Depression
    * Hyperactive behavior, especially in children
    * Difficult to treat high blood pressure
    * Headaches, especially in the morning

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take your medical history and do a physical
exam.

    * Your provider will check your mouth, neck, and throat.
    * You may be asked about daytime sleepiness, how well you sleep, and bedtime habits. 

You will need to have a sleep study to confirm OSA. This testing can be done
in your home or in a sleep lab.

Other tests that may be performed include:

    * Arterial blood gases
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Echocardiogram
    * Thyroid function studies

## Treatment

Treatment helps keep your airway open while you sleep so your breathing does
not stop.

Lifestyle changes may help relieve symptoms in people with mild sleep apnea,
such as:

    * Avoid alcohol or medicines that make you sleepy before bedtime. They can make symptoms worse.
    * Avoid sleeping on your back.
    * Lose excess weight. 

Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices work best to treat
obstructive sleep apnea in most people.

    * You wear a mask over your nose or over your nose and mouth while you sleep.
    * The mask is connected by a hose to a small machine that sits at the side of your bed.
    * The machine pumps air under pressure through the hose and mask and into your airway while you sleep. This helps keep your airway open. 

It can take some time to get used to sleeping with CPAP therapy. Good follow-
up and support from a sleep center can help you overcome any problems using
CPAP.

Dental devices may help some people. You wear them in your mouth while you
sleep to keep your jaw forward and the airway open.

Other treatments may be available, but there is less evidence that they work.
It is best to talk with a doctor who specializes in sleep problems before
trying them.

Surgery may be an option for some people. It is often a last resort if other
treatments did not work and you have severe symptoms. Surgery may be used to:

    * Remove extra tissue at the back of the throat.
    * Correct problems with the structures in the face.
    * Create an opening in the windpipe to bypass the blocked airway if there are physical problems.
    * Remove the tonsils and adenoids.
    * Implant a pacemaker-like device that stimulates the muscles of the throat to stay open during sleep.

Surgery may not completely cure obstructive sleep apnea and may have long-term
side effects.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If not treated, sleep apnea may cause:

    * Anxiety and depression
    * Loss of interest in sex
    * Poor performance at work or school 

Daytime sleepiness because of sleep apnea can increase the risk of:

    * Motor vehicle accidents from driving while sleepy
    * Industrial accidents from falling asleep on the job 

In most cases, treatment completely relieves symptoms and problems from sleep
apnea.

## Possible Complications

Untreated obstructive sleep apnea may lead to or worsen heart disease,
including:

    * Heart arrhythmias
    * Heart failure
    * Heart attack
    * High blood pressure
    * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You feel very tired and sleepy during the day
    * You or your family notice symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea
    * Symptoms do not improve with treatment, or new symptoms develop 

## Alternative Names

Sleep apnea - obstructive - adults; Apnea - obstructive sleep apnea syndrome -
adults; Sleep-disordered breathing - adults; OSA - adults

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 
    * Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Obstructive sleep apnea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9701t.jpg)Obstructive sleep apnea

## References

Greenberg H, Lakticova V, Scharf SM. Obstructive sleep apnea: clinical
features, evaluation, and principles of management. In: Kryger M, Roth T,
Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 114.

Kimoff RJ. Obstructive sleep apnea. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 88.

Ng JH, Yow M. Oral appliances in the management of obstructive sleep apnea.
_Sleep Med Clin._ 2019;14(1):109-118. PMID: 30709525
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30709525.

Patil SP, Ayappa IA, Caples SM, Kimoff RJ, Patel SR, Harrod CG. Treatment of
adult obstructive sleep apnea with positive airway pressure: an American
Academy of Sleep Medicine clinical practice guideline. _J Clin Sleep Med._
2019;15(2):335â343. PMID: 30736887 pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30736887.

Redline S. Sleep-disordered breathing and cardiac disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 87.

## Review Date 1/29/2020

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea_thumb.jpg)Sleep Apnea
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

