Link: https://medlineplus.gov/speechandlanguageproblemsinchildren.html    
                                Description: It can be hard to know if your child&#39;s speech or language delay is a problem. Read about the types of problems and how they are diagnosed and treated.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Speech and Language Problems in Children

URL of this page:
https://medlineplus.gov/speechandlanguageproblemsinchildren.html

#  Speech and Language Problems in Children

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Children vary in their development of speech and language skills. Health care
professionals have lists of milestones for what's normal. These milestones
help figure out whether a child is on track or if he or she may need extra
help. For example, a child usually has one or two words like "Hi," "dog,"
"Dada," or "Mama" by her first birthday.

Sometimes a delay may be caused by hearing loss. Other times it may be due to
a speech or language disorder. Children who have speech disorders may have
trouble making speech sounds correctly. They may hesitate or stutter when
talking. Children with language disorders might have trouble understanding
what others say or difficulty sharing their thoughts.

If you have concerns about your child's speech or language development, talk
to your child's health care provider.

NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Start Here

    * Delayed Speech or Language Development (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Speech and Language Delay (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Speech and Language Developmental Milestones ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
    * Speech and Language Impairments (Center for Parent Information and Resources) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Speech-Language Therapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Specifics

    * Developmental Dyspraxia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Language Delays in Toddlers: Information for Parents (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Specific Language Impairment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
    * Your Starting Guide To Childhood Apraxia of Speech (Childhood Apraxia of Speech Association of North America)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: FOXP2-related speech and language disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: MED13L syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: PACS1 syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: SATB2-associated syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Language Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Clinical Trial for Stuttering Treatment: pilot study about dog participation in...
    * Article: Relationships between concurrent language ability and mental health outcomes in a...
    * Article: How Young Children Learn Language and Speech.
    * Speech and Language Problems in Children -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Directory of Organizations (Deafness and Communication Disorders) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)
    * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Going to a Speech Therapist (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Language disorder - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Speech disorders - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Speech and Language Problems in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechandLanguageProblemsinChildren.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Language disorder - children
    * Speech disorders - children
    * Tongue tie

## Related Health Topics

    * Child Development
    * Hearing Problems in Children
    * Speech and Communication Disorders
    * Stuttering

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Speech and Language Problems in
Children is the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication
Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 28 May 2019 Topic last reviewed: 27 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

