Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007660.htm    
                                Description: With pediatric sleep apnea, a child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pediatric sleep apnea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007660.htm

# Pediatric sleep apnea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

With pediatric sleep apnea, a child's breathing pauses during sleep because
the airway has become narrowed or partly blocked.

## Causes

During sleep, all of the muscles in the body become more relaxed. This
includes the muscles that help keep the throat open so air can flow into the
lungs.

Normally, the throat remains open enough during sleep to let air pass by.
However, some children have a narrow throat. This is often because of large
tonsils or adenoids, which partially block the airflow. When the muscles in
their upper throat relax during sleep, the tissues close in and block the
airway. This stop in breathing is called apnea.

Other factors that also may increase the risk of sleep apnea in children
include:

    * A small jaw
    * Certain shapes of the roof of the mouth (palate)
    * Large tongue, which may fall back and block the airway
    * Obesity
    * Poor muscle tone due to conditions such as Down syndrome or cerebral palsy

## Symptoms

Loud snoring is a telltale symptom of sleep apnea. Snoring is caused by air
squeezing through the narrowed or blocked airway. However, not every child who
snores has sleep apnea.

Children with sleep apnea also have the following symptoms at night:

    * Long silent pauses in breathing followed by snorts, choking, and gasps for air
    * Breathing mainly though the mouth 
    * Restless sleep
    * Waking up often
    * Sleepwalking 
    * Sweating
    * Bedwetting

During the daytime, children with sleep apnea may:

    * Feel sleepy or drowsy throughout the day 
    * Act grumpy, impatient, or irritable
    * Have trouble concentrating in school
    * Have hyperactive behavior

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take your child's medical history and do a
physical exam.

    * The provider will check your child's mouth, neck, and throat.
    * Your child may be asked about daytime sleepiness, how well he sleeps, and bedtime habits. 

Your child may be given a sleep study to confirm sleep apnea.

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the tonsils and adenoids often cures the condition in
children.

If needed, surgery also may be used to:

    * Remove extra tissue at the back of the throat
    * Correct problems with the structures in the face
    * Create an opening in the windpipe to bypass the blocked airway if there are physical problems 

Sometimes, surgery is not recommended or does not help. In that case, your
child my use a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) device.

    * The child wears a mask over their nose during sleep.
    * The mask is connected by a hose to a small machine that sits at the side of the bed.
    * The machine pumps air under pressure through the hose and mask and into the airway during sleep. This helps keep the airway open. 

It can take some time to get used to sleeping using CPAP therapy. Good follow-
up and support from a sleep center can help your child overcome any problems
using CPAP.

Other treatments may include:

    * Inhaled nasal steroids.
    * Dental device. This is inserted into the mouth during sleep to keep the jaw forward and the airway open.
    * Weight loss, for overweight children. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, treatment completely relieves symptoms and problems from sleep
apnea.

## Possible Complications

Untreated pediatric sleep apnea may lead to:

    * High blood pressure
    * Heart or lung problems
    * Slow growth and development

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a provider if:

    * You notice symptoms of sleep apnea in your child
    * Symptoms don't improve with treatment, or new symptoms develop

## Alternative Names

Sleep apnea - pediatric; Apnea - pediatric sleep apnea syndrome; Sleep-
disordered breathing - pediatric

## References

Marcus CL, Brooks LJ, Draper KA, et al. Diagnosis and management of childhood
obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. _Pediatrics._ 2012;130(3):e714-e755. PMID:
22926176 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22926176.

Tal A. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome: pathophysiology and clinical
characteristics. In: Sheldon SH, Ferber R, Kryger MH, Gozal D, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Pediatric Sleep Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 27.

## Review Date 9/5/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea_thumb.jpg)Sleep Apnea
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

