Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002032.htm    
                                Description: Knowing the serious health risks of using tobacco may help motivate you to quit. Using tobacco over a long time can increase your risk of many health problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Risks of tobacco

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002032.htm

# Risks of tobacco

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Knowing the serious health risks of using tobacco may help motivate you to
quit. Using tobacco over a long time can increase your risk of many health
problems.

## Information

Tobacco is a plant. Its leaves are smoked, chewed, or sniffed for a variety of
effects.

    * Tobacco contains the chemical nicotine, which is an addictive substance.
    * Tobacco smoke contains more than 7,000 chemicals, at least 70 of which are known to cause cancer.
    * Tobacco that is not burned is called smokeless tobacco. Including nicotine, there are at least 30 chemicals in smokeless tobacco that are known to cause cancer. 

HEALTH RISKS OF SMOKING OR USING SMOKELESS TOBACCO

There are many health risks from smoking and using tobacco. The more serious
ones are listed below.

Heart and blood vessel problems:

    * Blood clots and weakness in the walls of blood vessels in the brain, which can lead to stroke
    * Blood clots in the legs, which may travel to the lungs
    * Coronary artery disease, including angina and heart attack
    * Temporarily increased blood pressure after smoking
    * Poor blood supply to the legs
    * Problems with erections because of decreased blood flow into the penis 

Other health risks or problems:

    * Cancer (more likely in the lung, mouth, larynx, nose and sinuses, throat, esophagus, stomach, bladder, kidney, pancreas, cervix, colon, and rectum)
    * Poor wound healing after surgery
    * Lung problems, such as COPD, or asthma that is harder to control
    * Problems during pregnancy, such as babies born at a low birth weight, early labor, losing your baby, and cleft lip
    * Decreased ability to taste and smell
    * Harm to sperm, which may lead to infertility
    * Loss of sight due to an increased risk of macular degeneration
    * Tooth and gum diseases
    * Wrinkling of the skin 

Smokers who switch to smokeless tobacco instead of quitting tobacco still have
health risks:

    * Increased risk of cancer of the mouth, tongue, esophagus, and pancreas
    * Gum problems, tooth wear, and cavities
    * Worsening high blood pressure and angina 

HEALTH RISKS OF SECONDHAND SMOKE

Those who are often around the smoke of others (secondhand smoke) have a
higher risk of:

    * Heart attack and heart disease
    * Lung cancer
    * Sudden and severe reactions, including of the eye, nose, throat, and lower respiratory tract 

Infants and children who are often exposed to secondhand smoke are at risk of:

    * Asthma flares (children with asthma who live with a smoker are much more likely to visit the emergency room)
    * Infections of the mouth, throat, sinuses, ears, and lungs
    * Lung damage (poor lung function)
    * Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) 

Like any addiction, quitting tobacco is difficult, especially if you are doing
it alone.

    * Seek support from family members, friends, and coworkers.
    * Talk to your health care provider about nicotine replacement therapy and smoking cessation medicines.
    * Join a smoking cessation program and you will have a much better chance of success. Such programs are offered by hospitals, health departments, community centers, and work sites. 

## Alternative Names

Secondhand smoke - risks; Cigarette smoking - risks; Smoking and smokeless
tobacco - risks; Nicotine - risks

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Tobacco and vascular disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17192t.jpg)Tobacco and vascular disease
    * ![Tobacco and chemicals](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17193t.jpg)Tobacco and chemicals
    * ![Tobacco and cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17195t.jpg)Tobacco and cancer
    * ![Tobacco health risks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9975t.jpg)Tobacco health risks
    * ![Secondhand smoke and lung cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19349t.jpg)Secondhand smoke and lung cancer
    * ![Respiratory cilia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19533t.jpg)Respiratory cilia

## References

Benowitz NL, Brunetta PG. Smoking hazards and cessation. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

Rakel RE, Houston T. Nicotine addiction. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 49.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Behavioral and pharmacotherapy
interventions for tobacco smoking cessation in adults, including pregnant
women: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;163(8):622-634. PMID: 26389730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389730.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Smoking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Smoking_thumb.jpg)Smoking _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

