Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003227.htm    
                                Description: A sunburn is reddening of the skin that occurs after you are overexposed to the sun or other ultraviolet light.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sunburn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003227.htm

# Sunburn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sunburn is reddening of the skin that occurs after you are overexposed to
the sun or other ultraviolet light.

![Sunburn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19631.jpg)

## Considerations

The first signs of a sunburn may not appear for a few hours. The full effect
to your skin may not appear for 24 hours or longer. Possible symptoms include:

    * Red, tender skin that is warm to the touch
    * Blisters that develop hours to days later
    * Severe reactions (sometimes called sun poisoning), including fever, chills, nausea, or rash
    * Skin peeling on sunburned areas several days after the sunburn

Symptoms of sunburn are usually temporary. But the damage to skin cells is
often permanent, which can have serious long-term effects. These include skin
cancer and early aging of the skin. By the time the skin starts to become
painful and red, the damage has been done. Pain is worst between 6 to 48 hours
after sun exposure.

## Causes

Sunburn results when the amount of exposure to the sun or other ultraviolet
light source exceeds the ability of melanin to protect the skin. Melanin is
the skin's protective coloring (pigment). Sunburn in a very light-skinned
person may occur in less than 15 minutes of midday sun exposure, while a dark-
skinned person may tolerate the same exposure for hours.

Keep in mind:

    * There is no such thing as a "healthy tan." Unprotected sun exposure causes early aging of the skin and skin cancer.
    * Sun exposure can cause first and second degree burns.
    * Skin cancer usually appears in adulthood. But, it is caused by sun exposure and sunburns that began as early as childhood. 

Factors that make sunburn more likely:

    * Infants and children are very sensitive to the burning effects of the sun.
    * People with fair skin are more likely to get sunburn. But even dark and black skin can burn and should be protected.
    * The sun's rays are strongest during the hours of 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The sun's rays are also stronger at higher altitudes and lower latitudes (closer to the equator). Reflection off water, sand, or snow can make the sun's burning rays stronger.
    * Sun lamps can cause severe sunburn.
    * Some medicines (such as the antibiotic doxycycline) can make your skin easier to sunburn.
    * Some medical conditions (such as lupus) can make you more sensitive to the sun. 

![Sun's effect on
skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200100t.gif)Watch this video
about:Sun's effect on skin

## Home Care

If you do get a sunburn:

    * Take a cool shower or bath or place cleanÂ wet, cool wash cloths on the burn.
    * DO NOT use products that contain benzocaine or lidocaine. These can cause allergy in some persons and make the burn worse.
    * If there are blisters, dry bandages may help prevent infection.
    * If your skin is not blistering, moisturizing cream may be applied to relieve discomfort. DO NOT use butter, petroleum jelly (Vaseline), or other oil-based products. These can block pores so that heat and sweat cannot escape, which can lead to infection. DO NOT pick at or peel away the top part of the blisters.
    * Creams with vitamins C and E may help limit damage to skin cells.
    * Over-the-counter medicines, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen, help to relieve pain from sunburn. DO NOT give aspirin to children.
    * Cortisone creams may help reduce the inflammation.
    * Loose cotton clothing should be worn.
    * Drink lots of water. 

Ways to prevent sunburn include:

    * Use a broad spectrum sunscreen of SPF 30 or higher. A broad spectrum sunscreen protects from both UVB and UVA rays.
    * Apply a generous amount of sunscreen to fully cover exposed skin. Reapply sunscreen every 2 hours or as often as the label says.
    * Reapply sunscreen after swimming or sweating and even when it is cloudy.
    * Use a lip balm with sunscreen.
    * Wear a hat with wide brim and other protective clothing. Light-colored clothing reflects the sun most effectively.
    * Stay out of the sun during hours when the sun's rays are strongest between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.
    * Wear sunglasses with UV protection. 
![Sun protection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19307.jpg)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a health care provider right away if you have a fever with sunburn. Also
call if there are signs of shock, heat exhaustion, dehydration, or other
serious reactions. These signs include:

    * Feeling faint or dizzy
    * Rapid pulse or rapid breathing
    * Extreme thirst, no urine output, or sunken eyes
    * Pale, clammy, or cool skin
    * Nausea, fever, chills, or rash
    * Your eyes hurt and are sensitive to light
    * Severe, painful blisters 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and look at your skin. You may be
asked about your medical history and current symptoms, including:

    * When did the sunburn occur?
    * How often do you get sunburn?
    * Do you have blisters?
    * How much of the body was sunburned?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * Do you use a sunblock or sunscreen? What type? How strong?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

## Alternative Names

Solar erythema; Burn from the sun

## Images

    * ![Burns](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1078t.jpg)Burns
    * ![Sun protection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19307t.jpg)Sun protection
    * ![Skin cancer, melanoma on the fingernail](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2439t.jpg)Skin cancer, melanoma on the fingernail
    * ![Skin cancer, close-up of lentigo maligna melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2498t.jpg)Skin cancer, close-up of lentigo maligna melanoma
    * ![Skin cancer - close-up of level III melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2499t.jpg)Skin cancer - close-up of level III melanoma
    * ![Skin cancer - close-up of level IV melanoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2500t.jpg)Skin cancer - close-up of level IV melanoma
    * ![Skin cancer - melanoma superficial spreading](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2501t.jpg)Skin cancer - melanoma superficial spreading
    * ![Sunburn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9314t.jpg)Sunburn
    * ![Sunburn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19631t.jpg)Sunburn

## References

American Academy of Dermatology website. Sunscreen FAQs. www.aad.org/sun-
protection/sunscreen-faqs. Accessed December 23, 2019.

Habif TP. Light-related diseases and disorders of pigmentation. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Krakowski AC, Goldenberg A. Exposure to radiation from the sun. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 12/23/19.

![Sun Exposure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SunExposure_thumb.jpg)Sun
Exposure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

