Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000125.htm    
                                Description: The skin uses sunlight to help manufacture vitamin D, which is important for normal bone formation. But sometimes its ultraviolet light can be very detrimental.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Sun's effect on skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000125.htm

# Sun's effect on skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200100_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200100_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The skin uses sunlight to help manufacture vitamin D, which is important for
normal bone formation. But sometimes its ultraviolet light can be very
detrimental.

Within the skin's epidermal (outer) layer are cells that contain the pigment
melanin. Melanin protects skin from the sun's ultraviolet rays, which can burn
the skin, and over time, could reduce its elasticity and cause a person to age
prematurely. Suntanning occurs because exposure to sunlight causes the skin to
produce more melanin and to darken. The tan fades as these cells move toward
the surface and are sloughed off.

Too much exposure to ultraviolet or UV rays can cause sunburn. UV rays
penetrate the outer skin layers and pass into the deeper layers, where they
can damage or kill skin cells. People who do not have much melanin and sun
burn easily should protect themselves by covering up sensitive areas, wearing
sun block, limiting their total exposure time, and limiting their sun exposure
between the hours of 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.

Frequent and prolonged exposure to ultraviolet rays over many years is the
chief cause of skin cancer. Examine skin regularly for development of
suspicious growths or changes in an existing skin lesion. Early detection and
treatment are key in increasing the cure rate for skin cancer.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Sun Exposure

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

