Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000690.htm    
                                Description: Cranial mononeuropathy VI is a nerve disorder. It affects the function of the sixth cranial (skull) nerve. As a result, the person may have double vision.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cranial mononeuropathy VI

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000690.htm

# Cranial mononeuropathy VI

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cranial mononeuropathy VI is a nerve disorder. It affects the function of the
sixth cranial (skull) nerve. As a result, the person may have double vision.

## Causes

Cranial mononeuropathy VI is damage to the sixth cranial nerve. This nerve is
also called the abducens nerve. It helps you move your eye sideways toward
your temple.

Disorders of this nerve can occur with:

    * Brain aneurysms
    * Nerve damage from diabetes(diabetic neuropathy)
    * Gradenigo syndrome (which also causes discharge from the ear and eye pain)
    * Tolosa-Hunt syndrome, inflammation of the area behind the eye
    * Increased or decreased pressure in the skull
    * Infections (such as meningitis or sinusitis)
    * Multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease that affects the brain and spinal cord
    * Pregnancy
    * Stroke
    * Trauma (caused by head injury or accidentally during surgery)
    * Tumors around or behind the eye 

The exact cause of vaccination-related cranial nerve palsy in children is not
known.

Because there are common nerve pathways through the skull, the same disorder
that damages the sixth cranial nerve may affect other cranial nerves (such as
the third or fourth cranial nerve).

## Symptoms

When the sixth cranial nerve doesn't work properly, you can't turn your eye
outward toward your ear. You can still move your eye up, down, and toward the
nose, unless other nerves are affected.

Symptoms may include:

    * Double vision when looking to one side
    * Headaches
    * Pain around the eye 

## Exams and Tests

Tests often show that one eye has trouble looking to the side while the other
eye moves normally. An examination shows the eyes do not line up either at
rest or when looking in the direction of the weak eye.

Your health care provider will do a complete examination to determine the
possible effect on other parts of the nervous system. Depending on the
suspected cause, you may need:

    * Blood tests
    * Head imaging study (such as an MRI or CT scan)
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) 

You may need to be referred to a doctor who specializes in vision problems
related to the nervous system (neuro-ophthalmologist).

## Treatment

If your provider diagnoses swelling or inflammation of, or around the nerve,
medicines called corticosteroids may be used.

Sometimes, the condition disappears without treatment. If you have diabetes,
you'll be advised to keep tight control of your blood sugar level.

The provider may prescribe an eye patch to relieve the double vision. The
patch can be removed after the nerve heals.

Surgery may be advised if there is no recovery in 6 to 12 months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treating the cause may improve the condition. Recovery often occurs within 3
months in older adults who have hypertension or diabetes. There is less chance
of recovery in case of complete paralysis of the sixth nerve. The chance of
recovery are less in children than in adults in case of traumatic injury of
the nerve. Recovery is usually complete in case of benign sixth nerve palsy in
childhood.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include permanent vision changes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have double vision.

## Prevention

There is no way to prevent this condition. People with diabetes may reduce the
risk by controlling their blood sugar.

## Alternative Names

Abducens paralysis; Abducens palsy; Lateral rectus palsy; VIth nerve palsy;
Cranial nerve VI palsy; Sixth nerve palsy; Neuropathy - sixth nerve

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

McGee S. Nerves of the eye muscles (III, IV, and VI): approach to diplopia.
In: McGee S, ed.Â _Evidence-Based Physical Diagnosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 59.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
eye movement and alignment. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 623.

Rucker JC. Neuro-ophthalmology. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn
Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

Tamhankar MA. Eye movement disorders: third, fourth, and sixth nerve palsies
and other causes of diplopia and ocular misalignment. In: Liu GT, Volpe NJ,
Galetta SL, eds. _Liu, Volpe, and Galetta's Neuro-Ophthalmology_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 15.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeMovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eye
Movement Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

