Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002961.htm    
                                Description: Eye muscle repair is surgery to correct eye muscle problems that cause strabismus (crossed eyes).     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye muscle repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002961.htm

# Eye muscle repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eye muscle repair is surgery to correct eye muscle problems that cause
strabismus (crossed eyes).

## Description

The goal of this surgery is to restore the eye muscles to a proper position.
This will help the eyes move correctly.

Eye muscle surgery is most often done on children. However, adults who have
similar eye problems may also have it done. Children will most often have
general anesthesia for the procedure. They will be asleep and will not feel
pain.

Depending on the problem, one or both eyes may need surgery.

After the anesthesia has taken effect, the eye surgeon makes a small surgical
cut in the clear tissue covering the white of the eye. This tissue is called
the conjunctiva. Then the surgeon will locate one or more of the eye muscles
that needs surgery. Sometimes the surgery strengthens the muscle, and
sometimes it weakens it.

    * To strengthen a muscle, a section of the muscle or tendon may be removed to make it shorter. This step in the surgery is called a resection.
    * To weaken a muscle, it is reattached to a point farther toward the back of the eye. This step is called a recession.

The surgery for adults is similar. In most cases, adults are awake, but are
given medicine to numb the area and help them relax.

When the procedure is done on adults, an adjustable stitch is used on the
weakened muscle so that minor changes can be made later that day or the next
day. This technique often has a very good outcome.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Strabismus is a disorder in which the two eyes DO NOT line up in the same
direction. Therefore, the eyes DO NOT focus on the same object at the same
time. The condition is more commonly known as "crossed eyes."

Surgery may be recommended when strabismus does not improve with glasses or
eye exercises.

## Risks

Risks for any anesthesia are:

    * Reactions to anesthesia medicines
    * Breathing problems 

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Some risks for this surgery include:

    * Wound infections
    * Damage to the eye (rare)
    * Permanent double vision (rare) 

## Before the Procedure

Your child's eye surgeon may ask for:

    * A complete medical history and physical exam before the procedure
    * Orthoptic measurements (eye movement measurements) 

Always tell your child's health care provider:

    * What drugs your child is taking
    * Include any drugs, herbs, or vitamins you bought without a prescription
    * About any allergies your child may have to any medicines, latex, tape, soaps or skin cleaners 

During the days before the surgery:

    * About 10 days before the surgery, you may be asked to stop giving your child aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other blood thinners.
    * Ask your child's provider which drugs your child should still take on the day of the surgery. 

On the day of the surgery:

    * Your child will often be asked not to drink or eat anything for several hours before the surgery.
    * Give your child any drugs your doctor told you to give your child with a small sip of water.
    * Your child's provider or nurse will tell you when to arrive for the surgery.
    * The provider will make sure your child is healthy enough for surgery and does not have any signs of illness. If your child is ill, the surgery may be delayed. 

## After the Procedure

The surgery does not need an overnight stay in the hospital most of the time.
The eyes are most often straight right after surgery.

While recovering from the anesthesia and in the first few days after surgery,
your child should avoid rubbing their eyes. Your surgeon will show you how to
prevent your child from rubbing their eyes.

After a few hours of recovery,Â your child may go home. You should have a
follow-up visit with the eye surgeon 1 to 2 weeks after the surgery.

To prevent infection, you will probably need to put drops or ointment in your
child's eyes.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Eye muscle surgery does not fix the poor vision of a lazy (amblyopic) eye.
Your child may have to wear glasses or a patch.

In general, the younger a child is when the operation is performed, the better
the result. Your child's eyes should look normal a few weeks after the
surgery.

## Alternative Names

Repair of cross-eye; Resection and recession; Strabismus repair; Extraocular
muscle surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Eye muscle repair - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Walleyes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1125t.jpg)Walleyes
    * ![Before and after strabismus repair](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8648t.jpg)Before and after strabismus repair
    * ![Eye muscle repair - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10137t.jpg)Eye muscle repair - series

## References

Coats DK, Olitsky SE. Strabismus surgery. In: Lambert SR, Lyons CJ, eds.
_Taylor & Hoyt's Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 86.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
eye movement and alignment. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 623.

Robbins SL. Techniques of strabismus surgery. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 11.13.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeMovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eye
Movement Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

