Link: https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html    
                                Description: Read about skin pigmentation disorders, which affect the color of your skin. It could be too light or too dark, in certain areas or all over the body.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Skin Pigmentation Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html

#  Skin Pigmentation Disorders

Also called: Hyperpigmentation, Hypopigmentation

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Pigmentation means coloring. Skin pigmentation disorders affect the color of
your skin. Your skin gets its color from a pigment called melanin. Special
cells in the skin make melanin. When these cells become damaged or unhealthy,
it affects melanin production. Some pigmentation disorders affect just patches
of skin. Others affect your entire body.

If your body makes too much melanin, your skin gets darker. Pregnancy,
Addison's disease, and sun exposure all can make your skin darker. If your
body makes too little melanin, your skin gets lighter. Vitiligo is a condition
that causes patches of light skin. Albinism is a genetic condition affecting a
person's skin. A person with albinism may have no color, lighter than normal
skin color, or patchy missing skin color. Infections, blisters and burns can
also cause lighter skin.

## Start Here

    * Skin Pigment (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Wood's Lamp Examination (Logical Images)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Chemical Peels (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)
    * Dermabrasion (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)
    * Laser Resurfacing (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)
    * Melasma: Diagnosis and Treatment (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Living With

    * Melasma: Tips for Managing (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Specifics

    * Acanthosis Nigricans (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Age Spots (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)
    * Albinism (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Hyperpigmentation (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Incontinentia Pigmenti ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Lentigines (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Melasma (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Pityriasis Alba (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Progressive Pigmentary Purpura (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: Crouzon syndrome with acanthosis nigricans ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Dowling-Degos disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Griscelli syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: incontinentia pigmenti ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Legius syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: oculocutaneous albinism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: piebaldism ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Tietz syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Vici syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: Waardenburg syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
    * Genetics Home Reference: xeroderma pigmentosum ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Acanthosis Nigricans (Logical Images)
    * Lentigo Simplex (Logical Images)
    * Melasma (Logical Images)
    * Oral Melanotic Macule (Logical Images)
    * Post-Inflammatory Hyperpigmentation (Logical Images)
    * Post-Inflammatory Hypopigmentation (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hyperpigmentation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypopigmentation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pigmentation Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Ecchymosis combined with postinflammatory hyperpigmentation associated with acupuncture therapy: An observational...
    * Article: XPC beyond nucleotide excision repair and skin cancers.
    * Article: Chloracne and Hyperpigmentation Caused by Exposure to Hazardous Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor...
    * Skin Pigmentation Disorders -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a D.O. Dermatologist (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Find a Dermatologic Surgeon (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)
    * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * CafÃ© au Lait Macule (Logical Images)
    * Pityriasis Alba (Logical Images)
    * What Are Freckles? (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Acanthosis Nigricans (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Albinism (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Acanthosis nigricans (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Albinism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Incontinentia pigmenti (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Incontinentia pigmenti achromians (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Liver spots (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Melasma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Skin - abnormally dark or light (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Skin color - patchy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Urticaria pigmentosa (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acanthosis nigricans
    * Albinism
    * Incontinentia pigmenti
    * Incontinentia pigmenti achromians
    * Liver spots
    * McCune-Albright syndrome
    * Melasma
    * Paleness
    * Pityriasis alba
    * Skin - abnormally dark or light
    * Skin color - patchy
    * Urticaria pigmentosa
    * Waardenburg syndrome

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Birthmarks
    * Moles
    * Vitiligo

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Skin Pigmentation Disorders is
the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 26 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

