Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003397.htm    
                                Description: Extraocular muscle function testing examines the function of the eye muscles. A health care provider observes the movement of the eyes in six specific directions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Extraocular muscle function testing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003397.htm

# Extraocular muscle function testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Extraocular muscle function testing examines the function of the eye muscles.
A health care provider observes the movement of the eyes in six specific
directions.

## How the Test is Performed

You are asked to sit or stand with your head up and looking straight ahead.
Your provider will hold a pen or other object about 16 inches or 40
centimeters (cm) in front of your face. The provider will then move the object
in several directions and ask you to follow it with your eyes, without moving
your head.

A test called a cover/uncover test may also be done. You will look at a
distant object and the person doing the test will cover tone eye, then after a
few seconds, uncover it. You will be asked to keep looking at the distant
object. How the eye moves after it is uncovered may show problems. Then the
test is performed with the other eye.

A similar test called an alternate cover test may also be done. You will look
at the same distant object and the person doing the test will cover one eye,
and after a couple of seconds, shift the cover to the other eye. Then after a
couple more seconds, shift it back to the first eye, and so on for 3 to 4
cycles. You will keep looking at the same object no matter which eye is
covered.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal movement of the eyes.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is performed to evaluate weakness or other problems in the
extraocular muscles. These problems may result in double vision or rapid,
uncontrolled eye movements.

## Normal Results

Normal movement of the eyes in all directions.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Eye movement disorders may be due to abnormalities of the muscles themselves.
They may also be due to problems in the sections of the brain that control
these muscles. Your provider will talk to you about any abnormalities that may
be found.

## Risks

There are no risks associated with this test.

## Considerations

You may have a small amount of uncontrolled eye movement (nystagmus) when
looking to an extreme left or right position. This is normal.

## Alternative Names

EOM; Extraocular movement; Ocular motility examination

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Eye muscle test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9310t.jpg)Eye muscle test

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Neuro-ophthalmology. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 424.

Demer JL. Anatomy and physiology of the extraocular muscles and surrounding
tissues. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 11.1.

Griggs RC, Jozefowicz RF, Aminoff MJ. Approach to the patient with neurologic
disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 396.

Wallace DK, Morse CL, Melia M, et al. Pediatric eye evaluations preferred
practice pattern: I. vision screening in the primary care and community
setting; II. Comprehensive ophthalmic examination. _Ophthalmology_.
2018;125(1):P184-P227. PMID: 29108745 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29108745.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeMovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eye
Movement Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

