Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003037.htm    
                                Description: Nystagmus is a term to describe fast, uncontrollable movements of the eyes that may be:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nystagmus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003037.htm

# Nystagmus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nystagmus is a term to describe fast, uncontrollable movements of the eyes
that may be:

    * Side to side (horizontal nystagmus)
    * Up and down (vertical nystagmus)
    * Rotary (rotary or torsional nystagmus)

Depending on the cause, these movements may be in both eyes or in just one
eye.

Nystagmus can affect vision, balance, and coordination.

## Considerations

The involuntary eye movements of nystagmus are caused by abnormal function in
the areas of the brain that control eye movements. The part of the inner ear
that senses movement and position (the labyrinth) helps control eye movements.

There are two forms of nystagmus:

    * Infantile nystagmus syndrome (INS) is present at birth (congenital).
    * Acquired nystagmus develops later in life because of a disease or injury.

## Causes

NYSTAGMUS THAT IS PRESENT AT BIRTH (infantile nystagmus syndrome, or INS)

INS is usually mild. It does not become more severe, and it is not related to
any other disorder.

People with this condition are usually not aware of the eye movements, but
other people may see them. If the movements are large, sharpness of vision
(visual acuity) may be less than 20/20. Surgery may improve vision.

Nystagmus may be caused by congenital diseases of the eye. Although this is
rare, an eye doctor (ophthalmologist) should evaluate any child with nystagmus
to check for eye disease.

ACQUIRED NYSTAGMUS

The most common cause of acquired nystagmus is certain drugs or medicines.
Phenytoin (Dilantin) - an antiseizure medicine, excessive alcohol, or any
sedating medicine can impair the labyrinth's function.

Other causes include:

    * Head injury from motor vehicle accidents 
    * Inner ear disorders such as labyrinthitis or Meniere disease
    * Stroke
    * Thiamine or vitamin B12 deficiency

Any disease of the brain, such as multiple sclerosis or brain tumors, can
cause nystagmus if the areas controlling eye movements are damaged.

## Home Care

You may need to make changes in the home to help with dizziness, visual
problems, or nervous system disorders.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of nystagmus or think you
might have this condition.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a careful history and perform a thorough physical
examination, focusing on the nervous system and inner ear. The provider may
ask you to wear a pair of goggles that magnify your eyes for part of the
examination.

To check for nystagmus, the provider may use the following procedure:

    * You spin around for about 30 seconds, stop, and try to stare at an object.
    * Your eyes will first move slowly in one direction, then will move quickly in the opposite direction.

If you have nystagmus due to a medical condition, these eye movements will
depend on the cause.

You may have the following tests:

    * CT scan of the head
    * Electro-oculography: An electrical method of measuring eye movements using tiny electrodes
    * MRI of the head
    * Vestibular testing by recording the movements of the eyes 

There is no treatment for most cases of congenital nystagmus. Treatment for
acquired nystagmus depends on the cause. In some cases, nystagmus cannot be
reversed. In cases due to medicines or infection, the nystagmus usually goes
away after the cause has gotten better.

Some treatments may help improve the visual function of people with infantile
nystagmus syndrome:

    * Prisms
    * Surgery such as tenotomy
    * Drug therapies for infantile nystagmus

## Alternative Names

Back and forth eye movements; Involuntary eye movements; Rapid eye movements
from side to side; Uncontrolled eye movements; Eye movements - uncontrollable

## Images

    * ![External and internal eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8867t.jpg)External and internal eye anatomy

## References

Lavin PJM. Neuro-ophthalmology: ocular motor system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 44.

Proudlock FA, Gottlob I. Nystagmus in childhood. In: Lambert SR, Lyons CJ,
eds. _Taylor and Hoyt's Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 89.

Quiros PA, Chang MY. Nyastagmus, saccadic intrusions, and oscillations. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 9.19.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Eye Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeMovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eye
Movement Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

