Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000111.htm    
                                Description: You or your child had eye muscle repair surgery to correct eye muscle problems that caused crossed eyes. The medical term for crossed eyes is strabismus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye muscle repair - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000111.htm

# Eye muscle repair - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You or your child had eye muscle repair surgery to correct eye muscle problems
that caused crossed eyes. The medical term for crossed eyes is strabismus.

## When You're in the Hospital

Children most often receive general anesthesia for this surgery. They were
asleep and did not feel pain. Most adults are awake and sleepy, but pain free.
Numbing medicine was injected around their eye to block pain.

A small cut was made in the tissue between the eye and eyelid. This tissue is
called the conjunctiva. One or more of the muscles of the eye was strengthened
or weakened. This was done to position the eye properly and help it move
correctly. The stitches used during the surgery will dissolve, but they may be
scratchy at first. Most people leave the hospital a few hours after recovery.

## Self-care

After surgery:

    * The eye will be red and slightly swollen for a couple of days. It should open fully within 2 days after surgery.
    * The eye may be "scratchy" and sore when it moves. Taking acetaminophen (Tylenol) by mouth may help. A cool, damp washcloth placed gently over the eye can provide comfort.
    * You or your child may have some blood-tinged discharge from the eye. The health care provider will prescribe eye ointment or eye drops to use after the surgery to help the eye heal and prevent infection.
    * Your eyes or your child's eye may be sensitive to light. Try dimming the lights, closing curtains or shades, or wearing sunglasses.
    * Try to avoid rubbing the eyes.

Double vision is common after surgery for adults and for children age 6 years
and older. It is less common in younger children. Double vision most often
goes away a few days after the surgery. In adults, an adjustment is sometimes
made to the position of the eye muscle to refine the results.

You or your child can go back to your normal activities and exercise within a
few days after surgery. You can return to work, and your child may go back to
school or day care a day or two after surgery.

Children who had the surgery can slowly go back to a regular diet. Many
children feel a little sick to their stomach after surgery.

Most people do not have to wear a patch over their eye after this surgery, but
some do.

You or your child should have a follow-up visit with the eye surgeon 1 to 2
weeks after the surgery.

## When to Call the Doctor

CallÂ your provider if you or your child has:

    * A lasting low-grade fever, or a fever higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Increased swelling, pain, drainage, or bleeding from the eye
    * An eye that is no longer straight, or is "way out of line" 

## Alternative Names

Repair of cross-eye - discharge; Resection and recession - discharge; Lazy eye
repair - discharge; Strabismus repair - discharge; Extraocular muscle surgery
- discharge

## References

Coats DK, Olitsky SE. Strabismus surgery. In: Lambert SR, Lyons CJ. _Taylor
and Hoyt's Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 86.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
eye movement and alignment. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 623.

Robbins SL. Techniques of strabismus surgery. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 11.13.

## Read More

    * Eye muscle repair
    * Strabismus

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Eye Movement Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

