Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001624.htm    
                                Description: Supranuclear ophthalmoplegia is a condition that affects the movement of the eyes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Supranuclear ophthalmoplegia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001624.htm

# Supranuclear ophthalmoplegia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Supranuclear ophthalmoplegia is a condition that affects the movement of the
eyes.

## Causes

This disorder occurs because the brain is sending and receiving faulty
information through the nerves that control eye movement. The nerves
themselves are healthy.

People who have this problem often have progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP).
This is a disorder that affects the way the brain controls movement.

Other disorders that have been associated with this condition include:

    * Inflammation of the brain (encephalitis)
    * Disease that causes areas deep in the brain, just above the spinal cord, to shrink (olivopontocerebellar atrophy)
    * Disease of the nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord that control voluntary muscle movement (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis)
    * Malabsorption disorder of the small intestine (Whipple disease)

## Symptoms

People with supranuclear ophthalmoplegia are unable to move their eyes at will
in all directions, especially looking upward.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Mild dementia
    * Stiff and uncoordinated movements like those of Parkinson disease
    * Those of the disorder associated with supranuclear ophthalmoplegia

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms, focusing on the eyes and nervous system.

Tests will be done to check for diseases linked with supranuclear
ophthalmoplegia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) might show shrinking of the
brainstem.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause and symptoms of the supranuclear
ophthalmoplegia.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the cause of the supranuclear ophthalmoplegia.

## Alternative Names

Progressive supranuclear palsy - supranuclear ophthalmoplegia; Encephalitis -
supranuclear ophthalmoplegia; Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - supranuclear
ophthalmoplegia; Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - supranuclear ophthalmoplegia;
Whipple disease - supranuclear ophthalmoplegia; Dementia - supranuclear
ophthalmoplegia

## References

Lavin PJM. Neuro-ophthalmology: ocular motor system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 44.

Ling H. Clinical approach to progressive supranuclear palsy. _J Mov Disord_.
2016;9(1):3-13. PMID: 26828211 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26828211.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Movement
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeMovementDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eye
Movement Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

