Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002393.htm    
                                Description: Good health habits can allow you to avoid illness and improve your quality of life. The following steps will help you feel better and live better.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy living

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002393.htm

# Healthy living

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Good health habits can allow you to avoid illness and improve your quality of
life. The following steps will help you feel better and live better.

    * Get regular exercise and control your weight.
    * Don't smoke.
    * Do NOT drink a lot of alcohol. Avoid alcohol completely if you have a history of alcoholism.
    * Use the medicines your health care provider gives you as directed.
    * Eat a balanced and healthy diet.
    * Take care of your teeth.
    * Manage high blood pressure.
    * Follow good safety practices. 

EXERCISE

Exercise is a key factor in staying healthy. Exercise strengthens the bones,
heart, and lungs, tones muscles, improves vitality, relieves depression, and
helps you sleep better.

Talk to your provider before starting an exercise program if you have health
conditions such as obesity, high blood pressure, or diabetes. This can help
ensure that your exercise is safe and that you get the most of out of it.

SMOKING

Cigarette smoking is the main preventable cause of death in the United States.
One out of every 5 deaths each year is either directly or indirectly caused by
smoking.

Secondhand cigarette smoke exposure can cause lung cancer in nonsmokers.
Secondhand smoke is also linked to heart disease.

It is never too late to quit smoking. Talk to your provider or nurse about
medicines and programs that can help you quit.

ALCOHOL USE

Drinking alcohol changes many brain functions. Emotions, thinking, and
judgment are first to be affected. Continued drinking will affect motor
control, causing slurred speech, slower reactions, and poor balance. Having a
higher amount of body fat and drinking on an empty stomach will speed up the
effects of alcohol.

Alcoholism can lead to diseases including:

    * Diseases of the liver and pancreas
    * Cancer and other diseases of the esophagus and digestive tract
    * Heart muscle damage
    * Brain damage
    * Do NOT drink alcohol when you are pregnant. Alcohol can cause serious harm to the unborn baby and lead to fetal alcohol syndrome. 

Parents should talk to their children about the dangerous effects of alcohol.
Talk to your provider if you or someone close to you has a problem with
alcohol. Many people whose lives have been affected by alcohol get benefit
from taking part in an alcohol support group.

DRUG AND MEDICINE USE

Drugs and medicines affect people in different ways. Always tell your provider
about all the drugs you are taking. This includes over-the-counter medicines
and vitamins.

    * Drug interactions can be dangerous.
    * Older people need to be very careful about interactions when they are taking many medicines.
    * All of your providers should know all the medicines you are taking. Carry the list with you when you go for checkups and treatments.
    * Avoid drinking alcohol while taking medicines. This can cause serious problems. The combination of alcohol and tranquilizers or painkillers can be deadly. 

Pregnant women should not take any drug or medicine without talking to the
provider. This includes over-the-counter medicines. The unborn baby is even
more sensitive to the harm from drugs in the first 3 months. Tell your
provider if you have been taking anyÂ drugs just before becoming pregnant.

Always take medicines as prescribed. Taking any drug in a way other than
prescribed or taking too much can cause serious health problems. It is
considered drug abuse. Abuse and addiction are not just associated with
illegal "street" drugs.

Legal drugs such as laxatives, painkillers, nasal sprays, diet pills, and
cough medicines can also be misused.

Addiction is defined as continuing to use a substance even though you are
experiencing problems related to the use. Simply needing a drug (like a
painkiller or antidepressant) and taking it as prescribed is not addiction.

DEALING WITH STRESS

Stress is normal. It can be a great motivator and help in some cases. But too
much stress can cause health problems such as trouble sleeping, stomach upset,
anxiety, and mood changes.

    * Learn to recognize the things most likely to cause stress in your life.
    * You may not be able to avoid all stress but knowing the source can help you feel in control.
    * The more control you feel you have over your life, the less damaging the stress in your life will be. 

OBESITY

Obesity is a serious health concern. Excess body fat can overwork the heart,
bones, and muscles. It can also increase your risk for developing high blood
pressure, stroke, varicose veins, breast cancer, and gallbladder disease.

Obesity can be caused by eating too much and eating unhealthy foods. Lack of
exercise also plays a part. Family history may be a risk for some people as
well.

DIET

Having aÂ balanced diet is important to being in good health.

    * Choose foods that are low in saturated and trans fat, and low in cholesterol.
    * Limit your intake of sugar, salt (sodium), and alcohol.
    * Eat more fiber, which can be found in fruits, vegetables, beans, whole grain products, and nuts. 

TOOTH CARE

Good dental care can help you keep your teeth and gums healthy for a lifetime.
It is important for children to begin good dental habits when they are young.
For proper dental hygiene:

    * Brush your teeth twice a day and floss at least once daily.
    * Use fluoride toothpaste.
    * Get regular dental checkups.
    * Limit sugar intake.
    * Use a toothbrush with soft bristles. Replace your toothbrush when bristles get bent. 
    * Have your dentist show you the proper ways to brush and floss.

## Alternative Names

Healthy habits

## Images

    * ![Exercise 30 minutes a day](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19475t.jpg)Exercise 30 minutes a day
    * ![Exercise with friends](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19479t.jpg)Exercise with friends
    * ![Exercise - a powerful tool](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19480t.jpg)Exercise - a powerful tool

## References

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Final recommendation statement:
dental caries in children from birth through age 5 years: screening.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/dental-
caries-in-children-from-birth-through-age-5-years-screening. Updated May 2019.
Accessed July 11, 2019.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Final recommendation statement:
drug use, illicit: screening.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/drug-
use-illicit-screening. Updated February 2014. Accessed July 11, 2019.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Final recommendation statement:
healthful diet and physical activity for cardiovascular disease prevention in
adults with cardiovascular risk factors: behavioral counseling.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/healthy-
diet-and-physical-activity-counseling-adults-with-high-risk-of-cvd. Updated
December 2016. Accessed July 11, 2019.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Final recommendation statement:
tobacco smoking cessation in adults, including pregnant women: behavioral and
pharmacotherapy interventions.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/tobacco-
use-in-adults-and-pregnant-women-counseling-and-interventions1. Updated May
2019. Accessed July 11, 2019.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Unhealthy alcohol use in
adolescents and adults: screening and behavioral counseling interventions.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/unhealthy-
alcohol-use-in-adolescents-and-adults-screening-and-behavioral-counseling-
interventions. Updated May 2019. Accessed July 11, 2019.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Healthy
Living](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthyLiving_thumb.jpg)Healthy Living
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

