Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000830.htm    
                                Description: Scabies is an easily-spread skin disease caused by a very small mite.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scabies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000830.htm

# Scabies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scabies is an easily-spread skin disease caused by a very small mite.

## Causes

Scabies is foundÂ among people of all groups and ages around the world.

    * Scabies spread by skin-to-skin contact with another person who has scabies.
    * Scabies is easily spread among people who are in close contact. Whole families are often affected.

Outbreaks of scabies are more common in nursing homes, nursing facilities,
college dorms, and child care centers.

The mites that cause scabies burrow into the skin and lay their eggs. This
forms a burrow that looks like a pencil mark. Eggs hatch in 21 days. The itchy
rash is an allergic response to the mite.

Pets and animals usually do not spread human scabies. It is also very unlikely
for scabies to be spread through swimming pools.Â It is difficult to spread
through clothing or bed linen.

A type of scabies called crusted (Norwegian) scabies is a severe infestation
with very large numbers of mites. People whose immune systems are weakened are
most affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of scabies include:

    * Severe itching, most often at night.
    * Rashes, often between the fingersÂ and toes, undersides of the wrists, arm pits, women's breasts, and buttocks.
    * Sores on the skin from scratching and digging.
    * Thin lines (burrow marks) on the skin.
    * Babies will likely have a rash all over the body, especially on the head, face, and neck, with sores on the palms and soles.

Scabies doesn't affect the face except in babies and in people with crusted
scabies.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the skin for signs of scabies.Â

Tests that may done include:

    * Scraping the skin burrows to remove mites, eggs, or mite feces to examine under the microscope.
    * In some cases, a skin biopsyÂ is done.

## Treatment

HOME CARE

    * Before treatment, wash clothes and underwear, towels, bedding and sleepwear in hot water and dry at 140Â°F (60Â°C) or higher. Dry cleaning also works. If washing or dry cleaning can't be done, keep these items away from the body for at least 72 hours. Away from the body, the mites will die.
    * Vacuum carpets and upholstered furniture.
    * Use calamine lotion and soak in a cool bath to ease itching.
    * Take an oral antihistamine if your provider recommends it for very bad itching.

MEDICINES FROM YOUR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER

The whole family or sexual partners of infected people should be treated, even
if they do not have symptoms.

Creams prescribed by your provider are needed to treat scabies.

    * The cream most often used is permethrin 5%.
    * Other creams include benzyl benzoate, sulfur in petrolatum, and crotamiton.

Apply the medicine all over your body. Creams may be used as a one-time
treatment or they may be repeated in 1 week.

For hard to treat cases, the provider may also prescribe a pill known as
ivermectin as a one-time dose.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Itching may continue for 2 weeks or more after treatment begins. It will
disappear if you follow the provider's treatment plan.

Most cases of scabies can be cured without any long-term problems. A severe
case with a lot of scaling or crusting may be a sign that the person has aÂ
weakened immune system.

## Possible Complications

Intense scratching can cause a secondary skin infection, such as impetigo.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of scabies.
    * A person you have been in close contact with has been diagnosed with scabies.

## Alternative Names

Human scabies; Sarcoptes scabiei

## Images

    * ![Scabies rash and excoriation on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1298t.jpg)Scabies rash and excoriation on the hand
    * ![Scabies mite - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1364t.jpg)Scabies mite - photomicrograph
    * ![Scabies mite - photomicrograph of the stool](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1365t.jpg)Scabies mite - photomicrograph of the stool
    * ![Scabies mite - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2058t.jpg)Scabies mite - photomicrograph
    * ![Scabies mite - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2470t.jpg)Scabies mite - photomicrograph
    * ![Scabies mite, eggs, and stool photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2471t.jpg)Scabies mite, eggs, and stool photomicrograph

## References

Diaz JH. Scabies. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 295.

Habif TP. Infestations and bites. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A
Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 15.Â

## Review Date 11/3/2017

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Scabies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scabies_thumb.jpg)Scabies _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

