Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003746.htm    
                                Description: A throat swab culture is a laboratory test that is done to identify germs that may cause infection in the throat. It is most often used to diagnose strep throat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Throat swab culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003746.htm

# Throat swab culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A throat swab culture is a laboratory test that is done to identify germs that
may cause infection in the throat. It is most often used to diagnose strep
throat.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to tilt your head back and open your mouth wide. Your health
care provider will rub a sterile cotton swab along the back of your throat
near your tonsils. You will need to resist gagging and closing your mouth
while the swab touches this area.

Your provider may need to scrape the back of your throat with the swab several
times. This helps improve the chances of detecting bacteria.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT use antiseptic mouthwash before this test.

## How the Test will Feel

Your throat may be sore when this test is done. You may feel like gagging when
the back of your throat is touched with the swab, but the test only lasts a
few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done when a throat infection is suspected, particularly strep
throat. A throat culture can also help your provider determine which
antibiotic will work best for you.

## Normal Results

A normal or negative result means no bacteria or other germs that may cause a
sore throat were found.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal or positive result means bacteria or other germs that can cause a
sore throat were seen on the throat swab.

## Risks

This test is safe and easy to tolerate. In very few people, the sensation of
gagging may lead to an urge to vomit or cough.

## Alternative Names

Throat culture and sensitivity; Culture - throat

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Throat swabs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9950t.jpg)Throat swabs

## References

Nussenbaum B, Bradford CR. Pharyngitis in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Shulman ST. Group A streptococcus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 183.

Weber R. Pharyngitis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:50-52.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sore Throat](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SoreThroat_thumb.jpg)Sore Throat
_Read more_

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

