Link: https://medlineplus.gov/assistedreproductivetechnology.html    
                                Description: Learn about treating infertility with assisted reproductive technology (ART). It includes procedures like in vitro fertilization (IVF).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Assisted Reproductive Technology

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/assistedreproductivetechnology.html

#  Assisted Reproductive Technology

Also called: ART, In Vitro Fertilization, IVF

## Summary

Assisted reproductive technology (ART) is used to treat infertility. It
includes fertility treatments that handle both a woman's egg and a man's
sperm. It works by removing eggs from a woman's body. The eggs are then mixed
with sperm to make embryos. The embryos are then put back in the woman's body.
In vitro fertilization (IVF) is the most common and effective type of ART.

ART procedures sometimes use donor eggs, donor sperm, or previously frozen
embryos. It may also involve a surrogate or gestational carrier. A surrogate
is a woman who becomes pregnant with sperm from the male partner of the
couple. A gestational carrier becomes pregnant with an egg from the female
partner and the sperm from the male partner.

The most common complication of ART is a multiple pregnancy. It can be
prevented or minimized by limiting the number of embryos that are put into the
woman's body.

## Learn More

    * Assisted Reproductive Technologies (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Counseling Issues for Gay Men and Lesbians Seeking Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART) (American Society for Reproductive Medicine) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Fertility Clinic Success Rates (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * In vitro fertilization (IVF) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Intracytoplasmic sperm injection ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * National ART Success Rates (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Preparing for Assisted Reproductive Technology (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Prerequisite Testing for Infertility Treatment (Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology)
    * Third Party Reproduction: Sperm, Egg, and Embryo Donation and Surrogacy (American Society for Reproductive Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Fertilization in Vitro ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Reproductive Techniques, Assisted ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Busting the myth of extended blastocyst culture until Day 7: Protocol...
    * Article: Centering Race and Racism in Reproduction.
    * Article: Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD): do genetic disorders...
    * Assisted Reproductive Technology -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Assisted Reproductive
Technology](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AssistedReproductiveTechnology.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Assisted Reproductive Technology
is the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 August 2019 Topic last reviewed: 19 August 2015

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

