Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000655.htm    
                                Description: Pharyngitis, or sore throat, is discomfort, pain, or scratchiness in the throat. It often makes it painful to swallow.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pharyngitis - sore throat

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000655.htm

# Pharyngitis - sore throat

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pharyngitis, or sore throat, is discomfort, pain, or scratchiness in the
throat. It often makes it painful to swallow.

## Causes

Pharyngitis is caused by swelling in the back of the throat (pharynx) between
the tonsils and the voice box (larynx).

Most sore throats are caused by colds, the flu, coxsackie virus or mono
(mononucleosis).

![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1118.jpg)

Bacteria that can cause pharyngitis in some cases:

    * Strep throat is caused by group A streptococcus.
    * Less commonly, bacterial diseasesÂ such as gonorrhea and chlamydia can cause sore throat. 

Most cases of pharyngitis occur during the colder months. The illness often
spreads among family members and close contacts.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is a sore throat.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Fever
    * Headache 
    * Joint pain and muscle aches 
    * Skin rashes 
    * Swollen lymph nodes (glands) in the neck 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and look at your
throat.

A rapid test or throat culture to test for strep throat may be done. Other
laboratory tests may be done, depending on the suspected cause.

## Treatment

Most sore throats are caused by viruses. Antibiotics do not help viral sore
throats. Using these medicines when they are not needed leads to antibiotics
not working as well when they are needed.

Sore throat isÂ treated with antibiotics if:

    * A strep test or culture is positive. Your provider cannot diagnose strep throat by symptoms or a physical exam alone.
    * A culture for chlamydia or gonorrhea is positive.

Sore throat caused by the flu (influenza) may be helped by antiviral
medicines.

The following tips may help your sore throat feel better:

    * Drink soothing liquids. You can either drink warm liquids, such as lemon tea with honey, or cold liquids, such as ice water. You could also suck on a fruit-flavored ice pop.
    * Gargle several times a day with warm salt water (1/2 tsp or 3 grams of salt in 1 cup or 240 milliliters of water).
    * Suck on hard candies or throat lozenges. Young children should not be givenÂ these products because they can choke on them.
    * Use ofÂ a cool-mist vaporizer or humidifier can moisten the air and soothe a dry and painful throat.
    * Try over-the-counter pain medicines, such as acetaminophen. 

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Ear infection
    * Sinusitis
    * Abscess near the tonsils

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop a sore throat that does not go away after several days
    * You have a high fever, swollen lymph nodes in your neck, or a rash

Seek medical care right away if you have a sore throat and trouble breathing.

## Alternative Names

Pharyngitis - bacterial; Sore throat

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy

## References

Flores AR, Caserta MT. Pharyngitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 59.

Harris AM, Hicks LA, Qaseem A; High Value Care Task Force of the American
College of Physicians and for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Appropriate antibiotic use for acute respiratory tract infection in adults:
advice for high-value care from the American College of Physicians and the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. _Ann Intern Med_.
2016;164(6):425-434. PMID: 26785402 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26785402.

Shulman ST, Bisno AL, Clegg HW, et al. Clinical practice guideline for the
diagnosis and management of group A streptococcal pharyngitis: 2012 update by
the Infectious Diseases Society of America. _Clin Infect Dis_.
2012;55(10):e86-e102. PMID: 22965026 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22965026.

Tanz RR. Acute pharyngitis. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 409.

van Driel ML, De Sutter AI, Habraken H, Thorning S, Christiaens T. Different
antibiotic treatments for group A streptococcal pharyngitis. _Cochrane
Database Syst Rev_. 2016;9:CD004406. PMID: 27614728
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27614728.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sore Throat](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SoreThroat_thumb.jpg)Sore Throat
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

