Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001392.htm    
                                Description: Pharyngitis, or sore throat, is swelling, discomfort, pain, or scratchiness in the throat at, and just below the tonsils.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pharyngitis - viral

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001392.htm

# Pharyngitis - viral

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pharyngitis, or sore throat, is swelling, discomfort, pain, or scratchiness in
the throat at, and just below the tonsils.

## Causes

Pharyngitis may occur as part of a viral infection that also involves other
organs, such as the lungs or bowel.

Most sore throats are caused by viruses.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of pharyngitis may include:

    * Discomfort when swallowing
    * Fever
    * Joint pain or muscle aches
    * Sore throat
    * Tender swollen lymph nodes in the neck 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider usually diagnoses pharyngitis by examining your
throat. A lab test of fluid from your throat will show that bacteria (such as
group A _streptococcus_ , or strep) is not the cause of your sore throat.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for viral pharyngitis. You can relieve symptoms
by gargling with warm salt water several times a day (use one half teaspoon or
3 grams of salt in a glass of warm water). Taking anti-inflammatory medicine,
such as acetaminophen, can control fever. Excessive use of anti-inflammatory
lozenges or sprays may make a sore throat worse.

It is important NOT to take antibiotics when a sore throat is due to a viral
infection. The antibiotics will not help. Using them to treat viral infections
helps bacteria become resistant to antibiotics.

With some sore throats (such as those caused by infectious mononucleosis), the
lymph nodes in the neck may become very swollen. Your provider may prescribe
anti-inflammatory drugs, such as prednisone, to treat them.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms usually go away within a week to 10 days.

## Possible Complications

Complications of viral pharyngitis are extremely uncommon.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if symptoms last longer than expected,
or do not improve with self-care. Always seek medical care if you have a sore
throat and have extreme discomfort or difficulty swallowing or breathing.

## Prevention

Most sore throats cannot be prevented because the germs that cause them are in
our environment. However, always wash your hands after contact with a person
who has a sore throat. Also avoid kissing or sharing cups and eating utensils
with people who are sick.

## Images

    * ![Oropharynx](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9555t.jpg)Oropharynx

## References

Melio FR. Upper respiratory tract infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 65.

Nussenbaum B, Bradford CR. Pharyngitis in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Weber R. Pharyngitis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:50-52.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sore Throat](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SoreThroat_thumb.jpg)Sore Throat
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

