Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001541.htm    
                                Description: Phonological disorder is a type of speech sound disorder. Speech sound disorders are the inability to correctly form the sounds of words. Speech sound disorders also include articulation disorder, disfluency,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Phonological disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001541.htm

# Phonological disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Phonological disorder is a type of speech sound disorder. Speech sound
disorders are the inability to correctly form the sounds of words. Speech
sound disorders also include articulation disorder, disfluency, and voice
disorders.

Children with phonological disorder do not use some or all of the speech
sounds to form words as expected for a child their age.

## Causes

This disorder is more common in boys.

The cause of phonological disorders in children is often unknown. Close
relatives may have had speech and language problems.

## Symptoms

In a child developing normal speech patterns:

    * By age 3, at least one half of what a child says should be understood by a stranger.
    * The child should make most sounds correctly by age 4 or 5, except for a few sounds such as _l_ , _s_ , _r_ , _v_ , _z_ , _ch_ , _sh,_ and _th_.
    * Harder sounds may not be completely correct until age 7 or 8.

It is normal for young children make speech errors as their language develops.

Children with a phonological disorder keep using incorrect speech patterns
past the age they should have stopped using them.

Incorrect speech rules or patterns include dropping the first or last sound of
each word or replacing certain sounds for others.

Children may leave out a sound even though they are able to pronounce the same
sound when it occurs in other words or in nonsensical syllables. For example,
a child who drops last consonants may say "boo" for "book" and "pi" for "pig",
but may have no problem saying words like "key" or "go".

These errors may make it hard for other people to understand the child. Only
family members may be able to understand a child who has a more severe
phonological speech disorder.

## Exams and Tests

A speech language pathologist can diagnose a phonological disorder. They may
ask the child to say certain words and then use a test such as the Arizona-4
(Arizona Articulation and Phonology Scale, 4th revision).

Children should be examined to help rule out disorders not linked with
phonological disorders. These include:

    * Cognitive problems (such as intellectual disability)
    * Hearing impairment
    * Neurological conditions (such as cerebral palsy)
    * Physical problems (such as cleft palate)

The health care provider should ask questions, such asÂ if more than one
language or a certain dialect is spoken at home.

## Treatment

Milder forms of this disorder may go away on their own by around age 6.

Speech therapy may help more severe symptoms or speech problems that don't get
better. Therapy may help the child create the sound. For example, a therapist
can show where to place the tongue or how to form the lips when making a
sound.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the age the disorder started and how severe it is. Many
childrenÂ will go on toÂ develop almost normal speech.

## Possible Complications

In severe cases, the child may have problems being understood even by family
members. In milder forms, the child may have trouble being understood by
people outside the family. Social and academic problems (reading or writing
disability) may occur as a result.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child is:

    * Still difficult to understand by age 4
    * Still unable to make certain sounds by age 6
    * Leaving out, changing, or substituting certain sounds at age 7
    * Having speech problems that cause embarrassment

## Alternative Names

Developmental phonological disorder; Speech sound disorder; Speech disorder -
phonological

## References

Kelly DP, Natale MJ. Neurodevelopmental function and dysfunction in the
school-age child. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 32.

Simms MD. Language development and communication disorders. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 35.

Trauner DA, Nass RD. Developmental language disorders. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal
S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Speech and Communication
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechDisorders_thumb.jpg)Speech and
Communication Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

