Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003204.htm    
                                Description: Speech and language impairment may be any of several problems that make it difficult to communicate.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Speech impairment in adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003204.htm

# Speech impairment in adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Speech and language impairment may be any of several problems that make it
difficult to communicate.

## Considerations

The following are common speech and language disorders.

APHASIA

Aphasia is loss of the ability to understand or express spoken or written
language. It commonly occurs after strokes or traumatic brain injuries. It can
also occur in people with brain tumors or degenerative diseases that affect
the language areas of the brain. This term does not apply to children who have
never developed communication skills. There are many different types of
aphasia.

In some cases of aphasia, the problem eventually corrects itself, but in
others, it doesn't get better.

DYSARTHRIA

With dysarthria, the person has problems expressing certain sounds or words.
They have poorly pronounced speech (such as slurring) and the rhythm or speed
of speech is changed. Usually, a nerve or brain disorder has made it difficult
to control the tongue, lips, larynx, or vocal cords, which make speech.

Dysarthria, which is difficulty pronouncing words, is sometimes confused with
aphasia, which is difficulty producing language. They have different causes.

People with dysarthria may also have problems swallowing.

VOICE DISTURBANCES

Anything that changes the shape of the vocal cords or the way they work will
cause a voice disturbance. Lump-like growths such as nodules, polyps, cysts,
papillomas, granulomas, and cancers can be to blame. These changes cause the
voice to sound different from the way it normally sounds.

## Causes

Some of these disorders develop gradually, but anyone can develop a speech and
language impairment suddenly, usually in a trauma.

APHASIA

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Brain tumor (more common in aphasia than dysarthria)
    * Dementia
    * Head trauma
    * Stroke
    * Transient ischemic attack (TIA) 

DYSARTHRIA

    * Alcohol intoxication
    * Dementia
    * Diseases that affect nerves and muscles (neuromuscular diseases), such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS or Lou Gehrig disease), cerebral palsy, myasthenia gravis, or multiple sclerosis (MS)
    * Facial trauma
    * Facial weakness, such as Bell's palsy or tongue weakness
    * Head trauma
    * Head and neck cancer surgery
    * Nervous system (neurological) disorders that affect the brain, such as Parkinson disease or Huntington disease (more common in dysarthria than aphasia)
    * Poorly fitting dentures
    * Side effects of medicines that act on the central nervous system, such as narcotics, phenytoin, or carbamazepine
    * Stroke
    * Transient ischemic attack (TIA)

VOICE DISTURBANCES

    * Growths or nodules on the vocal cords
    * People who use their voice heavily (teachers, coaches, vocal performers) are more likely to develop voice disorders. 

## Home Care

For dysarthria, ways to help improve communication include speaking slowly and
using hand gestures. Family and friends need to provide plenty of time for
those with the disorder to express themselves. Typing on an electronic device
or using pen and paper can also help with communication.

For aphasia, family members may need to provide frequent orientation
reminders, such as the day of the week. Disorientation and confusion often
occur with aphasia.Using nonverbal ways of communicating may also help.

It's important to maintain a relaxed, calm environment and keep external
stimuli to a minimum.

    * Speak in a normal tone of voice (this condition is not a hearing or emotional problem).
    * Use simple phrases to avoid misunderstandings.
    * Don't assume that the person understands.
    * Provide communication aids, if possible, depending on the person and condition. 

Mental health counseling may help with depression or frustration that many
people with speech impairment have.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact the provider if:

    * Impairment or loss of communication comes on suddenly
    * There is any unexplained impairment of speech or written language

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Unless the problems have developed after an emergency event, the provider will
take a medical history and perform a physical exam. The medical history may
require the assistance of family or friends.

The provider will likely ask about the speech impairment. Questions may
include when the problem developed, whether there was an injury, and what
medicines the person takes.

Diagnostic tests that may be performed include the following:

    * Blood tests
    * Cerebral angiography to check blood flow in the brain
    * CT or MRI scan of the head to check for problems such as tumor
    * EEGÂ to measure electrical activity of the brain
    * Electromyography (EMG) to check the health of the muscles and the nerves that control the muscles
    * Lumbar puncture to check the cerebrospinal fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord
    * Urine tests
    * X-rays of the skull 

If the tests find other medical problems, other specialist doctors will need
to be consulted.

For help with the speech problem, a speech and language therapist or social
worker will likely need to be consulted.

## Alternative Names

Language impairment; Impairment of speech; Inability to speak; Aphasia;
Dysarthria; Slurred speech; Dysphonia voice disorders

## References

Halpern H, Goldfarb R. _Language and Motor Speech Disorders in Adults_. 3rd
ed. Burlington, MA: Jones and Bartlett Learning. 2013.

Kirshner HS. Aphasia and aphasic syndromes. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Kirshner HS. Dysarthria and apraxia of speech. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)Aphasia _Read
more_

![Speech and Communication
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechDisorders_thumb.jpg)Speech and
Communication Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

