Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001546.htm    
                                Description: Selective mutism is a condition in which a child can speak, but then suddenly stops speaking. It most often takes place in school or social settings.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Selective mutism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001546.htm

# Selective mutism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Selective mutism is a condition in which a child can speak, but then suddenly
stops speaking. It most often takes place in school or social settings.

## Causes

Selective mutism is most common in children under age 5. The cause, or causes,
are unknown. Most experts believe that children with the condition inherit a
tendency to be anxious and inhibited. Most children with selective mutism have
some form of extreme social fear (phobia).

Parents often think that the child is choosing not to speak. However in most
cases, the child is truly unable to speak in certain settings.

Some affected children have a family history of selective mutism, extreme
shyness, or anxiety disorders, which may increase their risk for similar
problems.

This syndrome is not the same as mutism. In selective mutism, the child can
understand and speak, but is unable to speak in certain settings or
environments. Children with mutism never speak.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Ability to speak at home with family
    * Fear or anxiety around people they do not know well
    * Inability to speak in certain social situations
    * Shyness 

This pattern must be seen for at least 1 month to be selective mutism. (The
first month of school does not count, because shyness is common during this
period.)

## Exams and Tests

There is no test for selective mutism. Diagnosis is based on the person's
history of symptoms.

Teachers and counselors should consider cultural issues, such as recently
moving to a new country and speaking another language. Children who are
uncertain about speaking a new language may not want to use it outside of a
familiar setting. This is not selective mutism.

The person's history of mutism should also be considered. People who have been
through trauma may show some of the same symptoms seen in selective mutism.

## Treatment

Treating selective mutism involves behavior changes. The child's family and
school should be involved. Certain medicines that treat anxiety and social
phobia have been used safely and successfully.

## Support Groups

You can find information and resources through selective mutism support
groups.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with this syndrome can have different outcomes. Some may need to
continue therapy for shyness and social anxiety into the teenage years, and
possibly into adulthood.

## Possible Complications

Selective mutism can affect the child's ability to function in school or
social settings. Without treatment, symptoms may get worse.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has symptoms of selective mutism,
and it is affecting school and social activities.

## References

Bostic JQ, Prince JB, Buxton DC. Child and adolescent psychiatric disorders.
In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General
Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 69.

Rosenberg DR, Ciriboga JA. Anxiety disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Simms MD. Language development and communication disorders. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 35.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Speech and Communication
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechDisorders_thumb.jpg)Speech and
Communication Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

