Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007470.htm    
                                Description: Dysarthria is a condition in which you have difficulty saying words because of problems with the muscles that help you talk.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dysarthria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007470.htm

# Dysarthria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dysarthria is a condition in which you have difficulty saying words because of
problems with the muscles that help you talk.

## Causes

In a person with dysarthria, a nerve, brain, or muscle disorder makes it
difficult to use or control the muscles of the mouth, tongue, larynx, or vocal
cords.

The muscles may be weak or completely paralyzed. Or, it may be hard for the
muscles to work together.

Dysarthria may be the result of brain damage due to:

    * Brain injury
    * Brain tumor
    * Dementia
    * Disease that causes the brain to lose its function (degenerative brain disease)
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Parkinson disease
    * Stroke

Dysarthria may result from damage to the nerves that supply the muscles that
help you talk, or to the muscles themselves from:

    * Face or neck trauma
    * Surgery for head and neck cancer, such as partial or total removal of the tongue or voice box

Dysarthria may be caused by diseases that affect nerves and muscles
(neuromuscular diseases):

    * Cerebral palsy
    * Muscular dystrophy
    * Myasthenia gravis
    * Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or Lou Gehrig disease

Other causes may include:

    * Alcohol intoxication
    * Poorly fitting dentures
    * Side effects of medicines that act on the central nervous system, such as narcotics, phenytoin, or carbamazepine 

## Symptoms

Depending on its cause, dysarthria may develop slowly or occur suddenly.

People with dysarthria have trouble making certain sounds or words.

Their speech is poorly pronounced (such as slurring), and the rhythm or speed
of their speech changes. Other symptoms include:

    * Sounding as though they are mumbling
    * Speaking softly or in a whisper
    * Speaking in a nasal or stuffy, hoarse, strained, or breathy voice

A person with dysarthria may also drool and have problems chewing or
swallowing. It may be hard to move the lips, tongue, or jaw.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take a medical history and perform a physical
exam. Family and friends may need to help with the medical history.

A procedure called laryngoscopy may be done. During this procedure, a flexible
viewing scope is placed in the mouth and throat to view the voice box.

Tests that may be done if the cause of the dysarthria is unknown include:

    * Blood tests for toxins or vitamin levels
    * Imaging tests, such as an MRI or CT scan of the brain or neck
    * Nerve conduction studies and electromyogram to check the electrical function of the nerves or muscles
    * Swallowing study, which may include x-rays and drinking a special liquid 

## Treatment

You may need to be referred to a speech and language therapist for testing and
treatment. Special skills you may learn include:

    * Safe chewing or swallowing techniques, if needed
    * To avoid conversations when you are tired
    * To repeat sounds over and over again so you can learn mouth movements
    * To speak slowly, use a louder voice, and pause to make sure other people understand
    * What to do when you feel frustrated while speaking 

You can use many different devices or techniques to help with speech, such as:

    * Apps that use photos or speech
    * Computers or cell phones to type out words
    * Flip cards with words or symbols 

Surgery may help people with dysarthria.

Things that family and friends can do to communicate better with someone who
has dysarthria include:

    * Turn off the radio or TV.
    * Move to a quieter room if needed.
    * Make sure lighting in the room is good.
    * Sit close enough so that you and the person who has dysarthria can use visual cues.
    * Make eye contact with each other. 

Listen carefully and allow the person to finish. Be patient. Make eye contact
with them before speaking. Give positive feedback for their effort.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Depending on the cause of dysarthria, symptoms may improve, stay the same, or
get worse slowly or quickly.

    * People with ALS eventually lose the ability to speak.
    * Some people with Parkinson disease or multiple sclerosis lose the ability to speak.
    * Dysarthria caused by medicines or poorly fitting dentures can be reversed.
    * Dysarthria caused by a stroke or brain injury will not get worse, and may improve.
    * Dysarthria after surgery to the tongue or voice box should not get worse, and may improve with therapy. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Chest pain, chills, fever, shortness of breath, or other symptoms of pneumonia
    * Coughing or choking
    * Difficulty speaking to or communicating with other people
    * Feelings of sadness or depression

## Alternative Names

Impairment of speech; Slurred speech; Speech disorders - dysarthria

## References

Fager SK, Hakel M, Brady S, et al. Adult neurogenic communication and
swallowing disorders. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016: chap 3.

Kirshner HS. Dysarthria and apraxia of speech. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Speech and Communication
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechDisorders_thumb.jpg)Speech and
Communication Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

