Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000247.htm    
                                Description: Allergies to pollen, dust mites, and animal dander in the nose and nasal passages are called allergic rhinitis. Hay fever is another term often used for this problem. Symptoms are usually a watery, runny    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000247.htm

# Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Allergies to pollen, dust mites, and animal dander in the nose and nasal
passages are called allergic rhinitis. Hay fever is another term often used
for this problem. Symptoms are usually a watery, runny nose and itching in
your nose. Allergies can also bother your eyes.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you
take care of your allergies.

## Questions

What am I allergic to?

    * Will my symptoms feel worse inside or outside?
    * At what time of year will my symptoms feel worse? 

Do I need allergy tests?

What sort of changes should I make around my home?

    * Can I have a pet? In the house or outside? How about in the bedroom?
    * Is it OK for anyone to smoke in the house? How about if I am not in the house at the time?
    * Is it OK for me to clean and vacuum in the house?
    * Is it OK to have carpets in the house? What type of furniture is best to have?
    * How do I get rid of dust and mold in the house? Do I need to cover my bed or pillows with allergen proof casings?
    * How do I know if I have cockroaches? How do I get rid of them?
    * Can I have a fire in my fireplace or wood burning stove? 

How do I find out when smog or pollution is worse in my area?

Am I taking my allergy medicines the right way?

    * What are the side effects of my medicines? For what side effects should I call the doctor?
    * Can I use nasal spray that I can buy without a prescription? 

If I also have asthma:

    * I'm taking my control drug every day. Is this the right way to take it? What should I do if I miss a day?
    * I take my quick-relief drug when my allergy symptoms come on suddenly. Is this the right way to take it? Is it OK to use this drug daily?
    * How will I know when my inhaler is getting empty? Am I using my inhaler the right way? Is it safe to use an inhaler with corticosteroids?

Do I need allergy shots?

What vaccinations do I need?

What sort of changes do I need to make at work?

What exercises are better for me to do? Are there times when I should avoid
exercising outside? Are there things that I can do for my allergies before I
start exercising?

What should I do when I know I'm going to be around something that makes my
allergies worse?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about allergic rhinitis - adult; Hay fever - what to
ask your doctor - adult; Allergies - what to ask your doctor - adult; Allergic
conjunctivitis - what to ask your doctor

## References

Borish L. Allergic rhinitis and chronic sinusitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 251.

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF Jr., Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. In: _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

## Read More

    * Allergen
    * Allergic rhinitis
    * Allergies - overview
    * Allergy testing - skin
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Common cold
    * Sneezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Hay Fever

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

