Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000248.htm    
                                Description: Allergies to pollen, dust mites, and animal dander are also called allergic rhinitis. Hay fever is another word often used for this problem. Symptoms are usually a watery, runny nose and itching in your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000248.htm

# Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Allergies to pollen, dust mites, and animal dander are also called allergic
rhinitis. Hay fever is another word often used for this problem. Symptoms are
usually a watery, runny nose and itching in your eyes and nose.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your child's health care provider
to help you take care of your child's allergies.

## Questions

What is my child allergic to? Will my child's symptoms be worse inside or
outside? At what time of year will my child's symptoms feel worse?

Does my child need allergy tests? Does my child need allergy shots?

What sort of changes should I make around the home?

    * Can we have a pet? In the house or outside? How about in the bedroom?
    * Is it OK for anyone to smoke in the house? How about if my child is not in the house at the time?
    * Is it OK for me to clean and vacuum when my child is in the house?
    * Is it OK to have carpets in the house? What type of furniture is best to have?
    * How do I get rid of dust and mold in the house? Do I need to cover my child's bed or pillows?
    * Can my child have stuffed animals?
    * How do I know if I have cockroaches? How do I get rid of them?
    * Can I have a fire in my fireplace or wood burning stove? 

Is my child taking their allergy medicines the right way?

    * What drugs should my child be taking every day?
    * Which drugs should my child take when their allergy symptoms get worse? Is it OK to use these drugs every day?
    * Can I buy these medicines at the store myself, or do I need a prescription?
    * What are the side effects of these medicines? For what side effects should I call the doctor?
    * How will I know when my child's inhaler is getting empty? Is my child using the inhaler the right way? Is it safe for my child to be using an inhaler with corticosteroids in it? What are the long-term side effects? 

Will my child have wheezing or asthma?

What shots or vaccinations does my child need?

How do I find out when smog or pollution is worse in our area?

What does my child's school or daycare need to know about allergies? How do I
make sure my child can use the medicines at school?

Are there times when my child should avoid being outside?

Does my child need tests or treatments for allergies? What should I do when I
know my child will be around something that makes their allergy symptoms
worse?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about allergic rhinitis - child; Hay fever - what to
ask your doctor - child; Allergies - what to ask your doctor - child

## References

Baroody FM, Naclerio RM. Allergy and immunology of the upper airway. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 38.

Gentile DA, Pleskovic N, Bartholow A, Skoner DP. Allergic rhinitis. In: Leung
DYM, Szefler SJ, Bonilla FA, Akdis CA, Sampson HA, eds. _Pediatric Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Milgrom H, Sicherer SH. Allergic rhinitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 143.

## Read More

    * Allergen
    * Allergic rhinitis
    * Allergies - overview
    * Allergy testing - skin
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Common cold
    * Sneezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Hay Fever

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

