Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000813.htm    
                                Description: Allergic rhinitis is a diagnosis associated with a group of symptoms affecting the nose. These symptoms occur when you breathe in something you are allergic to, such as dust, animal dander, or pollen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergic rhinitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000813.htm

# Allergic rhinitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Allergic rhinitis is a diagnosis associated with a group of symptoms affecting
the nose. These symptoms occur when you breathe in something you are allergic
to, such as dust, animal dander, or pollen. Symptoms can also occur when you
eat a food that you are allergic to.

This article focuses on allergic rhinitis due to plant pollens. This type of
allergic rhinitis is commonly called hay fever or seasonal allergy.

## Causes

An allergen is something that triggers an allergy. When a person with allergic
rhinitis breathes in an allergen such as pollen, mold, animal dander, or dust,
the body releases chemicals that cause allergy symptoms.

![Allergic rhinitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19319.jpg)

Hay fever involves an allergic reaction to pollen.

Plants that cause hay fever are trees, grasses, and weeds. Their pollen is
carried by the wind. (Flower pollen is carried by insects and does not cause
hay fever.) Types of plants that cause hay fever vary from person to person
and from area to area.

The amount of pollen in the air can affect whether hay fever symptoms develop
or not.

    * Hot, dry, windy days are more likely to have a lot of pollen in the air.
    * On cool, damp, rainy days, most pollen is washed to the ground. 

Hay fever and allergies often run in families. If both of your parents have
hay fever or other allergies, you are likely to have hay fever and allergies,
too. The chance is higher if your mother has allergies.

## Symptoms

Symptoms that occur shortly after you come into contact with the substance you
are allergic to may include:

    * Itchy nose, mouth, eyes, throat, skin, or any area
    * Problems with smell
    * Runny nose
    * Sneezing
    * Watery eyes 

Symptoms that may develop later include:

    * Stuffy nose (nasal congestion)
    * Coughing
    * Clogged ears and decreased sense of smell
    * Sore throat
    * Dark circles under the eyes
    * Puffiness under the eyes
    * Fatigue and irritability
    * Headache 
![Recognizing invader](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19331.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. You will be asked whether your symptoms vary by time of day or
season, and exposure to pets or other allergens.

Allergy testing may reveal the pollen or other substances that trigger your
symptoms. Skin testing is the most common method of allergy testing.

If your doctor determines you cannot have skin testing, special blood tests
may help with the diagnosis. These tests, known as IgE RAST tests, can measure
the levels of allergy-related substances.

A complete blood count (CBC) test, called the eosinophil count, may also help
diagnose allergies.

## Treatment

LIFESTYLE AND AVOIDING ALLERGENS

The best treatment is to avoid the pollens that cause your symptoms. It may be
impossible to avoid all pollen. But you can often take steps to reduce your
exposure.

You may be prescribed medicine to treat allergic rhinitis. The medicine your
doctor prescribes depends on your symptoms and how severe they are. Your age
and whether you have other medical conditions, such as asthma, will also be
considered.

For mild allergic rhinitis, a nasal wash can help remove mucus from the nose.
You can buy a saline solution at a drug store or make one at home using 1 cup
(240 milliliters) of warm water, half a teaspoon (3 grams) of salt, and pinch
of baking soda.

Treatments for allergic rhinitis include:

ANTIHISTAMINES

Medicines called antihistamines work well for treating allergy symptoms. They
may be used when symptoms do not happen often or do not last long. Be aware of
the following:

    * Many antihistamines taken by mouth can be bought without a prescription.
    * Some can cause sleepiness. You should not drive or operate machines after taking this type of medicine.
    * Others cause little or no sleepiness.
    * Antihistamine nasal sprays work well for treating allergic rhinitis. Ask your doctor if you should try these medicines first. 

CORTICOSTEROIDS

    * Nasal corticosteroid sprays are the most effective treatment for allergic rhinitis.
    * They work best when used nonstop, but they can also be helpful when used for shorter periods of time.
    * Corticosteroid sprays are generally safe for children and adults.
    * Many brands are available. You can buy four brands without a prescription. For all other brands, you will need a prescription from your doctor. 

DECONGESTANTS

    * Decongestants may also be helpful for reducing symptoms such as nasal stuffiness.
    * Do not use nasal spray decongestants for more than 3 days. 

OTHER MEDICINES

    * Leukotriene inhibitors are prescription medicines that block leukotrienes. These are the chemicals the body releases in response to an allergen that also trigger symptoms. 

ALLERGY SHOTS

Allergy shots (immunotherapy) are sometimes recommended if you cannot avoid
the pollen and your symptoms are hard to control. This includes regular shots
of the pollen you are allergic to. Each dose is slightly larger than the dose
before it, until you reach the dose that helps control your symptoms. Allergy
shots may help your body adjust to the pollen that is causing the reaction.

SUBLINGUAL IMMUNOTHERAPY TREATMENT (SLIT)

Instead of shots, medicine put under the tongue may help for grass and ragweed
allergies.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most symptoms of allergic rhinitis can be treated. More severe cases need
allergy shots.

Some people, especially children, may outgrow an allergy as the immune system
becomes less sensitive to the trigger. ButÂ once a substance, such as pollen,Â
causes allergies, it often continues to have a long-term effect on the person.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * You have severe hay fever symptoms
    * Treatment that once worked for you no longer works
    * Your symptoms do not respond to treatment

## Prevention

You can sometimes prevent symptoms by avoiding the pollen you are allergic to.
During pollen season, you should stay indoors where it is air-conditioned, if
possible. Sleep with the windows closed, and drive with the windows rolled up.

## Alternative Names

Hay fever; Nasal allergies; Seasonal allergy; Seasonal allergic rhinitis;Â
Allergies - allergic rhinitis; Allergy - allergic rhinitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child

## Images

    * ![Allergy symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19316t.jpg)Allergy symptoms
    * ![Allergic rhinitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19319t.jpg)Allergic rhinitis
    * ![Recognizing invader](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19331t.jpg)Recognizing invader

## References

Baroody FM, Naclerio RM. Allergy and immunology of the upper airway. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 38.

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

Wallace DV, Dykewicz MS, Oppenheimer J, Portnoy JM, Lang DM. Pharmacologic
treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis: synopsis of guidance from the 2017
joint task force on practice parameters. _Ann Intern Med._
2017;167(12):876-881. PMID: 29181536 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29181536.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Hay Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HayFever2_thumb.jpg)Hay Fever
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

