Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000547.htm    
                                Description: Allergic rhinitis is a group of symptoms that affect your nose. They occur when you breathe in something you are allergic to, such as dust mites, animal dander, or pollen.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergic rhinitis - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000547.htm

# Allergic rhinitis - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Allergic rhinitis is a group of symptoms that affect your nose. They occur
when you breathe in something you are allergic to, such as dust mites, animal
dander, or pollen.

Allergic rhinitis is called hay fever when it is caused by plant pollen and
other outdoor particles.

## Avoid Your Triggers

Things that make allergies worse are called triggers. It may be impossible to
completely avoid all triggers. But, you can do many things to limit your or
your child's exposure to them:

    * Reduce dust and dust mites in the home.
    * Control molds indoors and out.
    * Avoid exposure to plant pollens and animals. 

Some changes you may need to make include:

    * Installing furnace filters or other air filters
    * Removing furniture and carpets from your floors
    * Using a dehumidifier to dry the air in your house
    * Changing where your pets sleep and eat
    * Avoiding certain outdoor tasks
    * Changing how you clean your house 

The amount of pollen in the air can affect whether hay fever symptoms develop.
More pollen is in the air on hot, dry, windy days. On cool, damp, rainy days,
most pollen is washed to the ground.

## Medicines for Allergic Rhinitis

Nasal corticosteroid sprays are the most effective treatment. Many brands are
available. You can buy some brands without a prescription. For other brands,
you need a prescription.

    * They work best when you use them every day.
    * It may take 2 or more weeks of steady use for your symptoms to improve.
    * They are safe for children and adults.

Antihistamines are medicines that work well for treating allergy symptoms.
They are often used when symptoms do not occur very often or do not last very
long.

    * Many can be bought as a pill, capsule, or liquid without a prescription.
    * Older antihistamines can cause sleepiness. They may affect a child's ability to learn and make it unsafe for adults to drive or use machinery.
    * Newer antihistamines cause little or no sleepiness or learning problems. 

Antihistamine nasal sprays work well for treating allergic rhinitis. They are
only available with a prescription.

Decongestants are medicines that help dry up a runny or stuffy nose. They come
as pills, liquids, capsules, or nasal sprays. You can buy them over-the-
counter (OTC), without a prescription.

    * You can use them along with antihistamine pills or liquids.
    * DO NOT use nasal spray decongestants for more than 3 days in a row.
    * Talk to your child's health care provider before giving decongestants to your child.

## Nasal Wash

For mild allergic rhinitis, a nasal wash can help remove mucus from your nose.
You can buy a saline spray at a drugstore or make one at home. To make a nasal
wash, use 1 cup (240 milliliters) of warm water, 1/2 a teaspoon (2.5 grams) of
salt, and a pinch of baking soda.

## When to Call the Doctor

Make an appointment with your provider if:

    * You have severe allergy or hay fever symptoms.
    * Your symptoms do not get better when you treat them.
    * You are wheezing or coughing more. 

## Alternative Names

Hay fever - self-care; Seasonal rhinitis - self-care; Allergies - allergic
rhinitis - self-care

## References

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

Seidman MD, Gurgel RK, Lin SY, et al. Clinical practice guideline: allergic
rhinitis. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_. 2015;152(1 Suppl):S1-S43. PMID:
25644617 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25644617.

Wright LS, Phipatanakul W. Environmental remediation in the treatment of
allergy and asthma: latest updates. _Curr Allergy Asthma Rep_. 2014;14(3):419.
PMID: 24488258 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24488258.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Hay Fever

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

