Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003519.htm    
                                Description: Allergy skin tests are used to find out which substances cause a person to have an allergic reaction.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergy testing - skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003519.htm

# Allergy testing - skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Allergy skin tests are used to find out which substances cause a person to
have an allergic reaction.

## How the Test is Performed

There are three common methods of allergy skin testing.

The skin prick test involves:

    * Placing a small amount of substances that may be causing your symptoms on the skin, most often on the forearm, upper arm, or back.
    * The skin is then pricked so the allergen goes under the skin's surface.
    * The health care provider closely watches the skin for swelling and redness or other signs of a reaction. Results are usually seen within 15 to 20 minutes.
    * Several allergens can be tested at the same time. Allergens are substances that cause an allergic reaction.
![Allergy skin prick or scratch
test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19344.jpg)

The intradermal skin test involves:

    * Injecting a small amount of allergen into the skin.
    * The provider then watches for a reaction at the site.
    * This test is more likely to be used to find out if you're allergic to bee venom or penicillin. Or it may be used if the skin prick test was negative and the provider still thinks that you're allergic to the allergen. 
![Intradermal allergy test
reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19345.jpg)

Patch testing is a method to diagnose the cause of skin reactions that occur
after the substance touches the skin:

    * Possible allergens are taped to the skin for 48 hours.
    * The provider will look at the area in 72 to 96 hours. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Before any allergy testing, the provider will ask about:

    * Illnesses
    * Where you live and work
    * Lifestyle
    * Foods and eating habits

Allergy medicines can change the results of skin tests. Your provider will
tell you which medicines to avoid and when to stop taking them before the
test.

## How the Test will Feel

Skin tests may cause very mild discomfort when the skin is pricked.

You may have symptoms such as itching, a stuffy nose, red watery eyes, or a
skin rash if you're allergic to the substance in the test.

In rare cases, people can have a whole-body allergic reaction (called
anaphylaxis), which can be life threatening. This usually only occurs with
intradermal testing. Your provider will be prepared to treat this serious
response.

## Why the Test is Performed

Allergy tests are done to find out which substances are causing your allergy
symptoms.

Your provider may order allergy skin tests if you have:

    * Hay fever (allergic rhinitis) and asthma symptoms that are not well controlled with medicine
    * Hives and angioedema
    * Food allergies
    * Skin rashes (dermatitis), in which the skin becomes red, sore, or swollen after contact with the substance
    * Penicillin allergy
    * Venom allergy

Allergies to penicillin and related medicines are the only drug allergies that
can be tested using skin tests. Skin tests for allergies to other drugs can be
dangerous.

The skin prick test may also be used to diagnose food allergies. Intradermal
tests are not used to test for food allergies because of high false-positive
results and the danger of causing a severe allergic reaction.

## Normal Results

A negative test result means there were no skin changes in response to the
allergen. This negative reaction most often means that you are not allergic to
the substance.

In rare cases, a person may have a negative allergy test and still be allergic
to the substance.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive result means you reacted to a substance. Your provider will see a
red, raised area called a wheal.

Often, a positive result means the symptoms you're having are due to exposure
to that substance. A stronger response means you are likely more sensitive to
the substance.

People can have a positive response to a substance with allergy skin testing,
but not have any problems with that substance in everyday life.

Skin tests are usually accurate. But, if the dose of allergen is large, even
people who are not allergic will have a positive reaction.

Your provider will consider your symptoms and the results of your skin test to
suggest lifestyle changes you can make to avoid substances that may be causing
your symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Patch tests - allergy; Scratch tests - allergy; Skin tests - allergy; RAST
test; Allergic rhinitis - allergy testing; Asthma - allergy testing; Eczema -
allergy testing; Hayfever - allergy testing; Dermatitis - allergy testing;
Allergy testing; Intradermal allergy testing

## Patient Instructions

    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child

## Images

    * ![RAST test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19334t.jpg)RAST test
    * ![Allergy skin prick or scratch test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19344t.jpg)Allergy skin prick or scratch test
    * ![Intradermal allergy test reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19345t.jpg)Intradermal allergy test reactions
    * ![Skin testing, PPD \(R arm\) and Candida \(L\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2823t.jpg)Skin testing, PPD (R arm) and Candida (L)

## References

Chiriac AM, Bousquet J, Demoly P. In vivo methods for the study and diagnosis
of allergy. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's
Allergy: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 70.

Homburger HA, Hamilton RG. Allergic diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR,
eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

## Review Date 4/17/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Food Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodAllergy_thumb.jpg)Food
Allergy _Read more_

![Hay Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HayFever2_thumb.jpg)Hay Fever
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

