Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000404.htm    
                                Description: A nasal corticosteroid spray is a medicine to help make breathing through the nose easier.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasal corticosteroid sprays

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000404.htm

# Nasal corticosteroid sprays

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nasal corticosteroid spray is a medicine to help make breathing through the
nose easier.

## What is a Nasal Corticosteroid Spray?

This medicine is sprayed into the nose to relieve stuffiness.

## How Does a Nasal Corticosteroid Spray Help you?

A nasal corticosteroid spray reduces swelling and mucus in the nasal
passageway. The sprays work well for treating:

    * Allergic rhinitis symptoms, such as congestion, runny nose, sneezing, itching, or swelling of the nasal passageway
    * Nasal polyps, which are noncancerous (benign) growths in the lining of the nasal passage 

A nasal corticosteroid spray is different from other nasal sprays you can buy
at the store to relieve symptoms of a cold.

A corticosteroid spray works best when it is used every day. Your health care
provider will recommend a daily schedule of the number of sprays for each
nostril.

You may also use the spray only when you need it, or as needed along with
regular use. Regular use gives you better results.

It may take 2 weeks or more for your symptoms to improve. Be patient.
Relieving the symptoms can help you feel and sleep better and lessen your
symptoms during the day.

Starting a corticosteroid spray at the beginning of pollen season will work
best for decreasing symptoms during that season.

Several brands of nasal corticosteroid sprays are available. They all have
similar effects. Some require a prescription, but you can buy some without
one.

## How do you use a Nasal Corticosteroid Spray?

Make sure you understand your dosing instructions. Spray only the number of
prescribed sprays in each nostril. Read the package instructions before using
your spray the first time.

Most corticosteroid sprays suggest the following steps:

    * Wash your hands well.
    * Gently blow your nose to clear the passageway.
    * Shake the container several times.
    * Keep your head upright. DO NOT tilt your head back.
    * Breathe out.
    * Block one nostril with your finger.
    * Insert the nasal applicator into the other nostril.
    * Aim the spray toward the outer wall of the nostril.
    * Inhale slowly through the nose and press the spray applicator.
    * Breathe out and repeat to apply the prescribed number of sprays.
    * Repeat these steps for the other nostril. 

Avoid sneezing or blowing your nose right after spraying.

## Side Effects

Nasal corticosteroid sprays are safe for all adults. Some types are safe for
children (age 2 and older). Pregnant women can safely use corticosteroid
sprays.

The sprays usually work only in the nasal passageway. They do not affect other
parts of your body unless you use too much.

Side effects may include any of these symptoms:

    * Dryness, burning, or stinging in the nasal passage. You can lessen this effect by using the spray after showering or placing your head over a steamy sink for 5 to 10 minutes.
    * Sneezing.
    * Throat irritation.
    * Headaches and nosebleed (uncommon, but report these to your provider right away).
    * Infection in the nasal passages.
    * In rare cases, perforation (hole or crack) in the nasal passageway may occur. This can happen if you spray into the middle of your nose instead of toward the outer wall.

Make sure you or your child uses the spray exactly as prescribed to avoid side
effects. If you or your child uses the spray regularly, ask your provider to
examine your nasal passages now and then to make sure problems are not
developing.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Nasal irritation, bleeding, or other new nasal symptoms
    * Continued allergy symptoms after repeated use of nasal corticosteroids
    * Questions or concerns about your symptoms
    * Trouble using the medicine 

## Alternative Names

Steroid nasal sprays; Allergies - nasal corticosteroid sprays

## References

American Academy of Family Physicians website. Nasal sprays: how to use them
correctly. familydoctor.org/nasal-sprays-how-to-use-them-correctly. Updated
December 2017. Accessed January 31, 2018.

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

Seidman MD, Gurgel RK, Lin SY, et al; Guideline Otolarnygology Development
Group. AAO-HNSF. Clinical practice guideline: allergic rhinitis. _Otolaryngol
Head Neck Surg_. 2015;152(1 Suppl):S1-S43. PMID: 25644617
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25644617.

## Review Date 11/19/2017

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Hay Fever
    * Nose Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

