Link: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/histamine-the-stuff-allergies-are-made-of/    
                                Description: Histamine is the stuff that allergies are made of. Why do we have such an annoying chemical, and what can be done about it?    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Videos ->

Histamine: The Stuff Allergies are Made of

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/histamine-the-
stuff-allergies-are-made-of/

# Histamine: The Stuff Allergies are Made of

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play Video

For closed captioning, click the CC button on the lower right-hand corner of
the player.

Video player keyboard shortcuts

## Video Outline

0:27 Prevalence of allergic conditions

0:50 Histamineâs role as a signalling molecule

1:14 Histamineâs role in the immune system

1:25 B-cells and IgE antibodies

1:39 Mast cells and basophils

2:03 Immune response in allergies

2:12 Common allergens

2:17 Allergy symptoms

2:36 Anaphylaxis

2:53 Allergy treatment

3:19 NIAID

## Transcript

 **Histamine: Friend or Foe? ...or Frenemy?**

 **From NIH MedlinePlus the Magazine**

Histamine: is it the most annoying chemical in the body?

[Histamine molecule] âBlehâ

Itâs the stuff that allergies are made of. Hay fever? Food allergy? Skin
allergies? Histamine plays a big role in all of them.

And those conditions play a big role in us. In 2015, CDC data showed that more
than 8% of US adults had hay fever. More than 5% of US children had food
allergies. And at least 12% of all US kids had skin allergies!

So whatâs the deal? Why do we have such a pesky chemical in our body?Â

Well, histamine is usually our friend.

Histamine is a signaling molecule, sending messages between cells. It tells
stomach cells to make stomach acid. And it helps our brain stay awake. You may
have seen these effects illustrated by medicines that block histamine. Some
antihistamines can make us sleepy and other antihistamines are used to treat
acid reflux.

Histamine also works with our immune system.Â

It helps protect us from foreign invaders. When the immune system discovers an
invader, immune cells called B-cells make IgE antibodies. The IgEâs are like
âWANTEDâ signs that spread throughout the body, telling other immune cells
about specific invaders to look for.

Eventually mast cells and basophils pick up the IgEâs and become sensitized.
When they come in contact with a target invaderâ¦They spew histamine and
other inflammatory chemicals.Â

Blood vessels become leakier, so that white blood cells and other protective
substances can sneak through and fight the invader.Â

Histamineâs actions are great for protecting the body against parasites.

But with allergies, the immune system overreacts to harmless substances, not
parasites. This is when histamine becomes our foe. Common allergens include
peanuts, pollen, and animal dander.

Leaky vessels cause tearing in eyes, congestion in the nose, and
swelling...basically anywhere. Histamine works with nerves to produce itching.
In food allergies it can cause vomiting and diarrhea. And it constricts
muscles in the lungs, making it harder to breathe.Â

Most worrisome is when histamine causes anaphylaxis, a severe reaction that is
potentially fatal. Swollen airways can prevent breathing, and a rapid drop in
blood pressure could starve organs of vital blood.

So what can be done about histamine?

Antihistamines block cells from seeing histamine and can treat common
allergies. Medicines like steroids can calm the inflammatory effects of
allergies. And anaphylaxis needs to be treated with a shot of epinephrine,
which opens up airways, and increases blood pressure.

So our relationship with histamine isâ¦complicated. We can do better.

NIH and specifically the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
(NIAID) support research of histamine and its related conditions. Great
progress is being made in understanding allergy triggers and managing allergic
symptoms, and figuring out why histamine, our frenemy, acts the way it does.

Find out specific up-to-date research and stories from medlineplus.gov and NIH
MedlinePlus the magazine, medlineplus.gov/magazine/, and learn more about
NIAID research at niaid.nih.gov.

## Video Information

 **Published September 8, 2017**

View this video on the MedlinePlus playlist at the U.S. National Library of
Medicine YouTube channel at: https://youtu.be/1YrKVobZnNg

 **ANIMATION:** Jeff DayÂ

**NARRATION:** Jennifer Sun Bell

## Related Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Food Allergy
    * Hay Fever

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 April 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

