Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001543.htm    
                                Description: Dysgraphia is a childhood learning disorder that involves poor writing skills. It is also called disorder of written expression.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dysgraphia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001543.htm

# Dysgraphia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dysgraphia is a childhood learning disorder that involves poor writing skills.
It is also called disorder of written expression.

## Causes

Dysgraphia is as common as other learning disorders.

A child can have dysgraphia only or along with other learning disabilities,
such as:

    * Developmental coordination disorder (includes poor handwriting)
    * Expressive language disorder
    * Reading disorder
    * ADHD

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Errors in grammar and punctuation
    * Poor handwriting
    * Poor spelling
    * Poorly organized writing 
    * Has to say words aloud when writing  

## Exams and Tests

Other causes of learning disabilities must be ruled out before the diagnosis
can be confirmed.

## Treatment

Special (remedial) education is the best approach to this type of disorder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The degree of recovery depends on the severity of the disorder. Improvement is
often seen after treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may occur include:

    * Learning problems
    * Low self-esteem
    * Problems with socializing 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Parents who are concerned about their child's writing ability should have
their child tested by educational professionals.

## Prevention

Learning disorders often run in families. Affected or potentially affected
families should make every effort to recognize problems early. Intervention
can begin as early as preschool or kindergarten.

## Alternative Names

Written expression disorder; Specific learning disorder with impairment in
written expression

## References

Kelly DP, Natale MJ. Neurodevelopmental function and dysfunction in the
school-age child. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 32.

Szklut SE, Philibert DB. Learning disabilities and developmental coordination
disorder. In: Umphred DA, Burton GU, Lazaro RT, Roller ML, eds. _Umphred's
Neurological Rehabilitation_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby;
2013:chap 14.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Learning
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LearningDisorders_thumb.jpg)Learning
Disabilities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

