Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001534.htm    
                                Description: Mathematics disorder is a condition in which a child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mathematics disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001534.htm

# Mathematics disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mathematics disorder is a condition in which a child's math ability is far
below normal for their age, intelligence, and education.

## Causes

Children who have mathematics disorder have troubleÂ with simple mathematical
equations, such as counting and adding.

Mathematical disorder may appear with:

    * Developmental coordination disorder
    * Developmental reading disorder
    * Mixed receptive-expressive language disorder

## Symptoms

The child may have trouble with math, as well as low scores in math classes
and on tests.

Problems the child may have are:

    * Trouble with reading, writing, and copying numbers
    * Problems counting and adding numbers, often making simple mistakes
    * Hard time telling the difference between adding and subtracting
    * Problems understanding math symbols and word problems
    * Can't line up numbers properly to add, subtract, or multiply
    * Can't arrange numbers from smallest to largest, or the opposite
    * Can't understand graphs 

## Exams and Tests

Standardized tests can assess the child's math ability. Grades and class
performance can also help.

## Treatment

The best treatment is special (remedial) education. Computer-based programs
may also help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early intervention improves the chances of a better outcome.

## Possible Complications

The child may have problems in school, including behavior problems and loss of
self-esteem. Some children with mathematics disorder become anxious or afraid
when given math problems, making the problem even worse.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you have any
concerns about your child's development.

## Prevention

Recognizing the problem early is important.Â Treatment may begin as early as
kindergarten or elementary school.

## Alternative Names

Developmental dyscalculia

## References

Kelly DP, Natale MJ. Neurodevelopmental function and dysfunction in the
school-age child. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 32.

Nass R, Sidhu R, Ross G. Autism and other developmental disabilities. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 90.

Rapin I. Dyscalculia and the calculating brain. _Pediatr Neurol._
2016;61:11-20. PMID: 27515455 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27515455.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Learning
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LearningDisorders_thumb.jpg)Learning
Disabilities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

