Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001406.htm    
                                Description: Developmental reading disorder is a reading disability that occurs when the brain does not properly recognize and process certain symbols.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental reading disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001406.htm

# Developmental reading disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Developmental reading disorder is a reading disability that occurs when the
brain does not properly recognize and process certain symbols.

It is also called dyslexia.

## Causes

Developmental reading disorder (DRD) or dyslexia occurs when there is a
problem in areas of the brain that help interpret language. It is not caused
by vision problems. The disorder is an information processing problem. It does
not interfere with thinking ability. Most people with DRD have normal or
above-average intelligence.

DRD may appear with other problems. These can include developmental writing
disorder and developmental arithmetic disorder.

The condition often runs in families.

## Symptoms

A person with DRD may have trouble rhyming and separating sounds that make up
spoken words. These abilities affect learning to read. A child's early reading
skills are based on word recognition. That involves being able to separate out
the sounds in words and match them with letters and groups of letters.

People with DRD have trouble connecting the sounds of language to the letters
of words. This may also create problems in understanding sentences.

True dyslexia is much broader than simply confusing or transposing letters.
For example, mistaking a "b" and a "d."

In general, symptoms of DRD may include problems with:

    * Determining the meaning of a simple sentence
    * Learning to recognize written words
    * Rhyming words

## Exams and Tests

It is important for a health care provider to rule out other causes of
learning and reading disabilities, such as:

    * Emotional disorders
    * Intellectual disability
    * Brain diseases
    * Certain cultural and education factors 

Before diagnosing DRD, the provider will:

    * Perform a complete medical exam, including a neurological exam.
    * Ask questions about the person's developmental, social, and school performance.
    * Ask if anyone else in the family has had dyslexia. 

Psychoeducational testing and psychological assessment may be done.

## Treatment

A different approach is needed for each person with DRD. An individual
education plan should be considered for each child with the condition.

The following may be recommended:

    * Extra learning assistance, called remedial instruction
    * Private, individual tutoring
    * Special day classes 

Positive reinforcement is important. Many students with learning disabilities
have poor self-esteem. Psychological counseling may be helpful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Specialized help (called remedial instruction) can help improve reading and
comprehension.

## Possible Complications

DRD may lead to:

    * Problems in school, including behavior problems
    * Loss of self-esteem
    * Reading problems that continue
    * Problems with job performance 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child appears to be having trouble learning to
read.

## Prevention

Learning disorders tend to run in families. It is important to notice and
recognize the warning signs. The earlier the disorder is discovered, the
better the outcome.

## Alternative Names

Dyslexia

## References

Kelly DP, Natale MJ. Neurodevelopmental function and dysfunction in the
school-age child. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 32.

Lawton AW, Wang MY. Lesions of retrochiasmal pathways, higher cortical
function, and nonorganic visual loss. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.13.

Nass R, Sidhu R, Ross G. Autism and other developmental disabilities. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 90.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Learning
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LearningDisorders_thumb.jpg)Learning
Disabilities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

