Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001654.htm    
                                Description: Aarskog syndrome is a very rare disease that affects a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aarskog syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001654.htm

# Aarskog syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aarskog syndrome is a very rare disease that affects a person's height,
muscles, skeleton, genitals, and appearance. It is passed down through
families (inherited).

## Causes

Aarskog syndrome is a genetic disorder that is linked to the X chromosome. It
affects mainly males, but females may have a milder form. The condition is
caused by changes (mutations) in a gene called "faciogenital dysplasia" (
_FGD1_ ).

## Symptoms

Symptoms of this condition include:

    * Belly button that sticks out
    * Bulge in the groin or scrotum
    * Delayed sexual maturity
    * Delayed teeth
    * Downward palpebral slant to eyesÂ (palpebral slant is the direction of the slant from the outer to inner corner of the eye)
    * Hairline with a "widow's peak"
    * Mildly sunken chest
    * Mild to moderate mental problems
    * Mild to moderate short height which may not be obvious until the child is 1 to 3 years old
    * Poorly developed middle section of the face
    * Rounded face
    * Scrotum surrounds the penis (shawl scrotum)
    * Short fingers and toes with mild webbing
    * Single crease in the palm of the hand
    * Small, broad hands and feet with short fingers and curved-in fifth finger
    * Small nose with nostrils tipped forward
    * Testicles that have not come down (undescended)
    * Top portion of the ear folded over slightly
    * Wide groove above the upper lip, crease below the lower lip
    * Wide-set eyes with droopy eyelids 

## Exams and Tests

These tests may be done:

    * Genetic testing for mutations in the _FGD1_ gene
    * X-rays 

## Treatment

Moving the teeth may be done to treat some of the abnormal facial features a
person with Aarskog syndrome may have.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on Aarskog syndrome:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/aarskog-syndrome
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/aarskog-scott-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people may have some mental slowness, but children with this condition
often have good social skills. Some males may have problems with fertility.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Changes in the brain
    * Difficulty growing in the first year of life
    * Poorly aligned teeth
    * Seizures
    * Undescended testicles

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has delayed growth or if you
notice any symptoms of Aarskog syndrome. Seek genetic counseling if you have a
family history of Aarskog syndrome. Contact a genetic specialist if your
provider thinks you or your child may have Aarskog syndrome.

## Prevention

Genetic testing may be available for people with a family history of the
condition or a known mutation of the gene that causes it.

## Alternative Names

Aarskog disease; Aarskog-Scott syndrome; AAS; Faciodigitogenital syndrome;
Gaciogenital dysplasia

## Images

    * ![The face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1095t.jpg)The face
    * ![Pectus excavatum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2927t.jpg)Pectus excavatum

## References

Jones KL, Jones MC, Del Campo M. Moderate short stature, facial Â± genital.
In: Jones KL, Jones MC, Del Campo M, eds. _Smith's Recognizable Patterns of
Human Malformation_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap D.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cleft Lip and
Palate](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CleftlipandPalate_thumb.jpg)Cleft Lip
and Palate _Read more_

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![Learning
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LearningDisorders_thumb.jpg)Learning
Disabilities _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

