Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000817.htm    
                                Description: A food allergy is type of immune response triggered by eggs, peanuts, milk, shellfish or some other specific food.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Food allergy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000817.htm

# Food allergy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A food allergy is type of immune response triggered by eggs, peanuts, milk,
shellfish or some other specific food.

## Causes

Many people have a food intolerance. This term refers to heartburn, cramps,
belly pain, or diarrhea that can occur after they eat foods such as:

    * Corn products
    * Cow's milk and dairy products (lactose intolerance)
    * Wheat and other grains that contain gluten (celiac disease) 

A true food allergy is much less common.

The immune system normally protects the body against harmful substances, such
as bacteria and viruses. It also reacts to foreign substances called
allergens. These are usually harmless, and in most people, do not cause a
problem.

![Food allergies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19326.jpg)

In a person with a food allergy, the immune response is oversensitive. When it
recognizes an allergen, the immune system launches a response. Chemicals such
as histamines are released. These chemicals cause allergy symptoms.

Any food can cause an allergic reaction. The most common food allergies are
to:

    * Eggs (mostly in children)
    * Fish (older children and adults)
    * Milk (people of all ages)
    * Peanuts (people of all ages)
    * Shellfish such as shrimp, crab, and lobster (people of all ages)
    * Soy (mostly in children)
    * Tree nuts (people of all ages)
    * Wheat (people of all ages) 

In rare cases, food additives, such as dyes, thickeners, and preservatives can
cause a food allergy or intolerance reaction.

Some people have an oral allergy. This is an allergy type syndrome that
affects the mouth and tongue after they eat certain fresh fruits and
vegetables:

    * Melons, apples, pineapple, and other foods contain substances that are similar to certain pollens.
    * The reaction most often occurs when you eat the raw form of the foods. How severe the reaction is depends on how much of the food you eat. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually begin within 2 hours after eating. Sometimes, the symptoms
begin hours after eating the food.

Key symptoms of a food allergy include hives, a hoarse voice, and wheezing.

Other symptoms that may occur include:

    * Swelling (angioedema), especially of the eyelids, face, lips, and tongue  

    * Trouble swallowing or breathing due to swelling in the throat
    * Itching of the mouth, throat, eyes, skin, or any other area
    * Lightheadedness or fainting
    * Nasal congestion, runny nose
    * Stomach cramps, diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting 
![Perioral dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2395.jpg)

Symptoms of mouth (oral) allergy syndrome:

    * Itchy lips, tongue, and throat
    * Swollen lips (sometimes) 

In a severe reaction, called anaphylaxis, in addition to the above symptoms,
you may have low blood pressure and blocked airways.

## Exams and Tests

Blood or skin tests are sometimes used to confirm that you have an allergy. A
double-blind food challenge is one way to diagnose true food allergies. During
this test, you and your health care provider will not know what you are
eating.

With elimination diets, you avoid the suspected food until your symptoms
disappear. Then you start eating the foods again to see if you develop an
allergic reaction.

In provocation (challenge) testing, you eat a small amount of the suspected
food under medical supervision. This type of test may cause severe allergic
reactions. Challenge testing should only be done by a provider.

Never try to cause a reaction or reintroduce a food on your own. These tests
should only be done under the guidance of a provider, especially if your first
reaction was severe.

## Treatment

If you suspect that you or your child has a food allergy, see an allergy
specialist doctor (allergist).

Treatment may involve any of the following:

    * Avoiding the food (this is the most effective treatment).
    * Desensitization, during which you eat a small amount of the food each day. This must be done under an allergist's guidance. 

Other treatments, including allergy shots and probiotics, have not been proven
to help with food allergies.

If your child has a problem with cow's milk formula, your provider may suggest
trying a soy-based formula or something called an elemental formula, if it is
available.

If you have symptoms on only one area of the body, for example, a hive on the
chin after eating the food, you may not need any treatment. The symptoms will
likely go away in a brief time. Antihistamines may relieve the discomfort.
Soothing skin creams may also provide some relief.

If you have been diagnosed with a food allergy, learn how to use injectable
epinephrine. You should have it with you at all times. If you develop any type
of serious or whole-body reaction (even hives) after eating the food:

    * Inject the epinephrine.
    * Then go to the nearest hospital or emergency facility right away, preferably by ambulance. 

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information about food allergies:

    * American Academy of Allergy Asthma and Immunology -- www.aaaai.org/conditions-and-treatments/allergies/food-allergies
    * Food Allergy Research and Education (FARE) -- www.foodallergy.org
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases -- www.niaid.nih.gov/diseases-conditions/food-allergy

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Allergies to peanuts, tree nuts, and shellfish tend to last a lifetime.

![Read food labels](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19347.jpg)

Avoiding the problem foods may be easy if the food is uncommon or easy to
identify. When eating away from home, ask detailed questions about the food
you are served. When buying food, read package ingredients carefully.

## Possible Complications

![Anaphylaxis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19320.jpg)

Anaphylaxis is a severe, whole-body allergic reaction that is life
threatening. Although people with oral allergy syndrome may have an
anaphylactic reaction in rare cases, they should ask their doctor if they need
to carry injectable epinephrine.

Food allergies can trigger or worsen asthma, eczema, or other disorders.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Steps to take when a food allergy reaction occurs:

    * Call your local emergency number, such as 911, if you have any serious or whole-body reactions, particularly wheezing or difficulty breathing, after eating a food.
    * If your provider prescribed epinephrine for severe reactions, inject it as soon as possible, even before calling 911. The sooner you inject the epinephrine, the better.
    * Anyone who has had an allergic reaction to a food should be seen by an allergist. 

## Prevention

Breastfeeding may help prevent allergies. Otherwise, there is no known way to
prevent food allergies.

A common belief and practice is to delay introducing allergy-causing foods to
infants until their gastrointestinal tract has had a chance to mature. The
timing for this varies from food to food and from baby to baby.

Avoiding peanuts in early childhood does not appear to prevent, and may even
enhance, the development of peanut allergy. Doctors now suggest introducing
peanut-containing foods to infants, which may prevent peanut allergy. Talk to
your child's provider to learn more.

Once an allergy has developed, carefully avoiding the offending food usually
prevents further problems.

## Alternative Names

Allergy to food; Food allergy - peanuts; Food allergy - soy; Food allergy -
fish; Food allergy - shellfish; Food allergy - eggs; Food allergy - milk

## Images

    * ![myPlate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1055t.jpg)myPlate
    * ![Anaphylaxis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19320t.jpg)Anaphylaxis
    * ![Food allergies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19326t.jpg)Food allergies
    * ![Read food labels](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19347t.jpg)Read food labels
    * ![Perioral dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2395t.jpg)Perioral dermatitis
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Bird JA, Jones S, Burks W. Food allergy. In: Rich RR, Fleisher TA, Shearer WT,
et al, eds. _Clinical Immunology: Principles and Practice_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Du Toit G, Sayre PH, Roberts G, et al; Immune Tolerance Network LEAP-On Study
Team. Effect of avoidance on peanut allergy after early peanut consumption. _N
Engl J Med_. 2016;374(15):1435-1443. PMID: 26942922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26942922.

NIAID-sponsored expert panel, Boyce JA, Assa'ad A, et al. Guidelines for the
diagnosis and management of food allergy in the United States: report of the
NIAID-sponsored expert panel. _J Allergy Clin Immunol_. 2010;126(6
Suppl):S1-S58. PMID: 21134576 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21134576.

Sicherer SH, Lack G, Jones SM. Food allergy management. In: Adkinson NF Jr,
Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 84.

Togias A, Cooper SF, Acebal ML, et al. Addendum guidelines for the prevention
of peanut allergy in the United States: report of the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases-sponsored expert panel. _J Allergy Clin
Immunol_. 2017;139(1):29-44. PMID: 28065278
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28065278.

## Review Date 10/24/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Food Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodAllergy_thumb.jpg)Food
Allergy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

