Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000335.htm    
                                Description: Many sweetened drinks are high in calories and can cause weight gain, even in active people. If you feel like drinking something sweet, try to choose a beverage that is made with non-nutritive (or sugar-free)    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sweetened beverages

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000335.htm

# Sweetened beverages

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many sweetened drinks are high in calories and can cause weight gain, even in
active people. If you feel like drinking something sweet, try to choose a
beverage that is made with non-nutritive (or sugar-free) sweeteners. You can
also add flavor to plain water or seltzer with fresh fruits or a splash of
fruit juice.

## Sweetened Drinks

Drinking a lot of sugar-sweetened beverages can increase your overall calorie
intake and may cause you to gain weight. Even though these drinks are just
liquid, they can add a lot of calories to your diet. And, because liquids do
not fill you up as much as solid foods do, you probably will not eat any less
at your next meal. Examples of the calories in some popular sweetened drinks
are:

    * A 16-ounce (480 ml) latte with whole milk has 270 calories.
    * A 20-ounce (600 ml) bottle of non-diet soda has 220 calories.
    * A 16-ounce (480 ml) glass of sweetened iced tea has 140 calories.
    * A 16-ounce (480 ml) Hawaiian Punch has 140 calories.
    * A 16-ounce (480 ml) Ocean Spray Cran-Apple juice has 260 calories.
    * A 16-ounce (480 ml) sports drink has 120 calories.Â 

The 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines recommend limiting added sugars to less than
10% of your daily calories. The American Heart Association recommends that
most American women consume no more than 100 calories per day of sugar, or
about 6 teaspoons of sugar per day; for men, it's 150 calories per day, or
about 9 teaspoons. Read the ingredients and watch out for drinks that are high
in sugar. Sugar can go by many names, including:

    * Corn syrup
    * Dextrose
    * Fructose
    * High fructose corn syrup
    * Honey
    * Syrup
    * Agave syrup
    * Brown rice syrup
    * Molasses
    * Evaporated cane juice 

## How About Fruit Juice?

Fruits contain many important vitamins and other nutrients, but drinking too
much fruit juice can add extra calories to your diet and can lead to weight
gain.

A 12-ounce (360 ml) serving of orange juice has about 170 calories. If you are
already getting enough calories from the other foods you eat, an extra 170
calories a day can add up to 12 to 15 pounds (5.4 to 6.75 kg) a year.

If you like to drink juice, consider diluting it with water. Try to limit
juice to 8 ounces (240 ml) or less per day. Whole fruits are a better choice
than fruit juices because they contain fiber.

## Watch out for Those Coffee Drinks!

Coffee drinks you have on the way to work and during coffee breaks can add
plenty of extra calories and saturated fat, more often if you buy ones that
have flavored syrups, whipped cream, or half-and-half added.

All of these examples are for 16-ounce (480 ml) drinks. You can buy these
drinks in smaller and larger sizes, too:

    * A flavored Frappuccino has more than 250 calories. With whipped cream, it has over 400 calories.
    * A nonfat mocha has 250 calories. With whipped cream, it has 320 calories.
    * A mocha made with whole milk and whipped cream has 400 calories.
    * A latte made with whole milk has 220 calories. With 1 flavor added, it has 290 calories.
    * A hot chocolate made with 2% milk has 320 calories. With whipped cream added, it has 400 calories.

An unsweetened latte made with skim milk would be a healthier choice for your
daily coffee.

## Healthier Coffee Choices

Order regular coffee and add only nonfat or 1% milk or a fat-free or low-fat
latte. Use a sugar substitute if you like your coffee sweet.

If you have a special coffee drink now and then, following these tips will cut
down on the calories:

    * Order the smallest size available. Skip the whipped cream on a mocha or hot chocolate and save about 100 calories.
    * Flavoring adds about 50 calories per tablespoon. Skip it if you can or ask the server to use only half as much.

## What You Could Drink Instead

It is important to consume enough water to stay hydrated. Skim or low-fat milk
are also healthy choices.

Some beverage choices that have 0 calories are:

    * Water
    * Diet soda
    * Sparkling water with natural flavors, such as lemon, lime, and berry
    * Plain coffee or tea 

## Alternative Names

Obesity - sweetened beverages; Overweight - sweetened beverages; Healthy diet
- sweetened beverages; Weight loss - sweetened beverages

## References

Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics website. Nutrition info about beverages.
www.eatright.org/health/weight-loss/tips-for-weight-loss/nutrition-info-about-
beverages. Updated January 2018. Accessed October 11, 2018.

US Department of Health and Human Services. US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th
Edition.health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed October 11, 2018.

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Carbohydrates

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

