Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002426.htm    
                                Description: Hyperactivity means an increase in movement, impulsive actions, being easily distracted, and shorter attention span. Some people believe that children are more likely to be hyperactive if they eat sugar,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperactivity and sugar

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002426.htm

# Hyperactivity and sugar

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperactivity means an increase in movement, impulsive actions, being easily
distracted, and shorter attention span. Some people believe that children are
more likely to be hyperactive if they eat sugar, artificial sweeteners, or
certain food colorings. Other experts disagree with this.

## Side Effects

Some people claim that eating sugar (such as sucrose), aspartame, and
artificial flavors and colors lead to hyperactivity and other behavior
problems in children. They argue that children should follow a diet that
limits these substances.

Activity levels in children vary with their age. A 2-year old is most often
more active, and has a shorter attention span, than a 10-year old.

A child's attention level also will vary depending on his or her interest in
an activity. Adults may view the child's level of activity differently
depending on the situation. For example, an active child at the playground may
be OK. However, a lot of activity late at night may be viewed as a problem.

In some cases, a special diet of foods without artificial flavors or colors
works for a child, because the family and the child interact in a different
way when the child eliminates these foods. These changes, not the diet itself,
may improve the behavior and activity level.

Refined (processed) sugars may have some effect on children's activity.
Refined sugars and carbohydrates enter the bloodstream quickly. Therefore,
they cause rapid changes in blood sugar levels. This may make a child become
more active.

Several studies have shown a link between artificial colorings and
hyperactivity. On the other hand, other studies do not show any effect. This
issue is yet to be decided.

## Recommendations

There are many reasons to limit the sugar a child has other than the effect on
activity level.

    * A diet high in sugar is a major cause of tooth decay.
    * High-sugar foods tend to have fewer vitamins and minerals. These foods may replace foods with more nutrition. High-sugar foods also have extra calories that can lead to obesity.
    * Some people have allergies to dyes and flavors. If a child has a diagnosed allergy, talk to a dietitian.
    * Add fiber to your child's diet to keep blood sugar levels more even. For breakfast, fiber is found in oatmeal, shredded wheat, berries, bananas, whole-grain pancakes. For lunch, fiber is found in whole-grain breads, peaches, grapes, and other fresh fruits.
    * Provide "quiet time" so that children can learn to calm themselves at home.
    * Talk to your health care provider if your child cannot sit still when other children of his or her age can, or cannot control impulses. 

## Alternative Names

Diet - hyperactivity

## References

Ditmar MF. Behavior and development. In: Polin RA, Ditmar MF, eds. _Pediatric
Secrets_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Langdon DR, Stanley CA, Sperling MA. Hypoglycemia in the toddler and child.
In: Sperling MA, ed. _Pediatric Endocrinology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 21.

Sawni A, Kemper KJ. Attention deficit disorder. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 7.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AttentionDeficitHyperactivityDisorder_thumb.jpg)Attention
Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder _Read more_

![Carbohydrates](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Carbohydrates_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrates
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

