Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002469.htm    
                                Description: Carbohydrates are one of the main nutrients in our diet. They help provide energy for our body. There are three main types of carbohydrates found in foods: sugars, starches, and fiber.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carbohydrates

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002469.htm

# Carbohydrates

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carbohydrates are one of the main nutrients in our diet. They help provide
energy for our body. There are three main types of carbohydrates found in
foods: sugars, starches, and fiber.

People with diabetes often need to count the amount of carbohydrates they eat.

## Function

Your body needs all three forms of carbohydrates to function properly.

Sugars and starches are broken down by the body into glucose (blood sugar) to
be used as energy.

Fiber is the part of food that is not broken down by the body. Fiber helps you
to feel full and can help you stay at a healthy weight.

There are two types of fiber. Insoluble fiber adds bulk to your stools so you
stay regular. Soluble fiber helps lower cholesterol levels and can help
improve blood glucose control.

## Food Sources

Many different types of foods contain one or more type of carbohydrate.

SUGARS

Sugar occurs naturally in these nutrient-rich foods:

    * Fruits
    * Milk and milk products 

Some foods have added sugar. Many packaged and refined foods contain added
sugar. These include:

    * Candy
    * Cookies, cakes, and pastries
    * Regular (non-diet) carbonated beverages, such as soda
    * Heavy syrups, such as those added to canned fruit 

Refined foods with added sugar provide calories, but they lack vitamins,
minerals, and fiber. Because they lack nutrients, these foods provide "empty
calories" and can lead to weight gain. Try to minimize your intake of foods
with added sugars.

STARCHES

These nutrient-rich foods are high in starch. Many are also high in fiber:

    * Canned and dried beans, such as kidney beans, black beans, pinto beans, black-eyed peas, split peas, and garbanzo beans
    * Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn, green peas, and parsnips
    * Whole grains, such as brown rice, oats, barley, and quinoa 

Refined grains, such as those found in pastries, white bread, crackers, and
white rice also contain starch. However, they lack B vitamins and other
important nutrients unless they are marked "enriched." Foods made with refined
or "white" flour also contain less fiber and protein than whole-grain
products, and do not help you feel as satisfied.

FIBER

High-fiber foods include:

    * Whole grains, such as whole wheat and brown rice as well as whole-grain breads, cereals, and crackers
    * Beans and legumes, such as black beans, kidney beans, and garbanzo beans
    * Vegetables, such as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, corn, potato with skin
    * Fruits, such as raspberries, pears, apples, and figs
    * Nuts and seeds 

Most processed and refined foods, enriched or not, are low in fiber.  

## Side Effects

Eating too many carbohydrates in the form of processed, starchy, or sugary
foods can cause an increase in total calories. This can lead to weight gain.

Severely restricting carbohydrates can cause ketosis. This is when the body
uses fat for energy because there are not enough carbohydrates from food for
the body to use for energy.

## Recommendations

It is best to get most of your carbohydrates from whole grains, dairy, fruits,
and vegetables instead rather than refined grains. In addition to calories,
whole foods provide vitamins, minerals, and fiber.

By making smart food choices, you can get the full range of healthy
carbohydrates and plenty of nutrients:

    * Choose a variety of foods including whole grains, fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, canned or fresh beans and legumes, and low-fat or non-fat dairy products.
    * Read labels on canned, packaged, and frozen foods to avoid added sugar, salt, and fat.
    * Make at least half of your grain servings per day from whole grains.
    * Choose whole fruits and 100% fruit juices with no added sugar. Make at least half of your daily fruit servings from whole fruits.
    * Limit sweets, sugar-sweetened beverages, and alcohol. Limit added sugars to less than 10 percent of your calories per day. 

Here is what is considered "1 serving" of carbohydrate-rich foods by MyPlate
(www.choosemyplate.gov/):

    * Starchy vegetables: 1 cup (230 grams) mashed potato or sweet potato, 1 small ear of corn.
    * Fruits: 1 medium-sized fruit (such as an apple or orange), Â½ cup dried fruit (95 grams) 1 cup 100% fruit juice (240 milliliters), 1 cup berriesÂ (or about 8 large strawberries).
    * Breads and cereals, grains, and beans: 1 slice of whole-grain bread; 1/2 cup (100 grams) of cooked brown rice, pasta, or cereal; 1/4 cup cooked peas, lentils, or beans (50 grams), 3 cups popped popcorn(30 grams).
    * Dairy: 1 cup (240 milliliters) of skim or low-fat milk or 8 ounces (225 grams) plain yogurt.

The food guide plate recommends filling half of your plate with fruits and
vegetables, and one-third of your plate with grains, at least half of which
are whole grains.

Here is a sample 2,000-calorie menu with healthy carbohydrate choices:

BREAKFAST

    * 1 cup (60 grams) shredded wheat cereal, topped with 1 tbsp (10 g) raisins and one cup (240 milliliters) fat-free milk
    * 1 small banana
    * 1 hard-boiled egg 

LUNCH

Smoked turkey sandwich, made with 2 ounces (55 grams) whole-wheat pita bread,
1/4 cup (12 grams) romaine lettuce, 2 slices tomato, 3 ounces (85 grams)
sliced smoked turkey breast.

    * 1 teaspoon (tsp) or 5 milliliters (mL) mayonnaise-type salad dressing
    * 1 tsp (2 g) yellow mustard
    * 1 medium pear
    * 1 cup (240 milliliters) tomato juice 

DINNER

    * 5 ounces (140 grams) grilled top loin steak
    * 3/4 cup (190 grams) mashed sweet potato
    * 2 tsp (10 g) soft margarine
    * 1 cup (30 grams) spinach salad
    * 2 ounce (55 grams) whole-wheat dinner roll
    * 1 tsp (5 g) soft margarine
    * 1 cup (240 milliliters) fat-free milk
    * 1 cup (240 milliliters) unsweetened applesauce 

SNACK

    * 1 cup (225 grams) low-fat plain yogurt with strawberries on top  

## Alternative Names

Starches; Simple sugars; Sugars; Complex carbohydrates; Diet - carbohydrates;
Simple carbohydrates

## Images

    * ![Complex carbohydrates](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19529t.jpg)Complex carbohydrates
    * ![Simple carbohydrates](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19534t.jpg)Simple carbohydrates
    * ![Starchy foods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19824t.jpg)Starchy foods

## References

Abumrad NA, Nassir F, Marcus A. Digestion and absorption of dietary fat,
carbohydrate, and protein. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger & Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 102.

Baynes JW. Carbohydrates and lipids. In: Baynes JW, Dominiczak MH, eds.
_Medical Biochemistry_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap
3.

Bird R. Nutrition. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 30.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture.
2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/. Updated December 2015. Accessed
April 17, 2018.

## Review Date 1/13/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carbohydrates](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Carbohydrates_thumb.jpg)Carbohydrates
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

