Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003211.htm    
                                Description: Stress is a feeling of emotional or physical tension. It can come from any event or thought that makes you feel frustrated, angry, or nervous.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stress and your health

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003211.htm

# Stress and your health

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stress is a feeling of emotional or physical tension. It can come from any
event or thought that makes you feel frustrated, angry, or nervous.

Stress is your body's reaction to a challenge or demand. In short bursts,
stress can be positive, such as when it helps you avoid danger or meet a
deadline. But when stress lasts for a long time, it may harm your health.

![Stress and anxiety](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9951.jpg)

## Considerations

Stress is a normal feeling. There are two main types of stress:

    *  **Acute stress.** This is short-term stress that goes away quickly. You feel it when you slam on the brakes, have a fight with your partner, or ski down a steep slope. It helps you manage dangerous situations. It also occurs when you do something new or exciting. All people have acute stress at one time or another.
    *  **Chronic stress.** This is stress that lasts for a longer period of time. You may have chronic stress if you have money problems, an unhappy marriage, or trouble at work. Any type of stress that goes on for weeks or months is chronic stress. You can become so used to chronic stress that you don't realize it is a problem. If you don't find ways to manage stress, it may lead to health problems. 

STRESS AND YOUR BODY

Your body reacts to stress by releasing hormones. These hormones make your
brain more alert, cause your muscles to tense, and increase your pulse. In the
short term, these reactions are good because they can help you handle the
situation causing stress. This is your body's way of protecting itself.

When you have chronic stress, your body stays alert, even though there is no
danger. Over time, this puts you at risk for health problems, including:

    * High blood pressure
    * Heart disease
    * Diabetes
    * Obesity
    * Depression or anxiety
    * Skin problems, such as acne or eczema
    * Menstrual problems 

If you already have a health condition, chronic stress can make it worse.

SIGNS OF TOO MUCH STRESS

Stress can cause many types of physical and emotional symptoms. Sometimes, you
may not realize these symptoms are caused by stress. Here are some signs that
stress may be affecting you:

    * Diarrhea or constipation
    * Forgetfulness
    * Frequent aches and pains
    * Headaches
    * Lack of energy or focus
    * Sexual problems
    * Stiff jaw or neck
    * Tiredness
    * Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much
    * Upset stomach
    * Use of alcohol or drugs to relax
    * Weight loss or gain 

## Causes

The causes of stress are different for each person. You can have stress from
good challenges and as well as bad ones. Some common sources of stress
include:

    * Getting married or divorced
    * Starting a new job
    * The death of a spouse or close family member
    * Getting laid off
    * Retiring
    * Having a baby
    * Money problems
    * Moving
    * Having a serious illness
    * Problems at work
    * Problems at home 
![Generalized anxiety
disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17191.jpg)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call a suicide hotline if you have thoughts of suicide.

Call your health care provider if you feel overwhelmed by stress, or if it is
affecting your health. Also call your provider if you notice new or unusual
symptoms.

Reasons you may want to seek help are:

    * You have feelings of panic, such as dizziness, rapid breathing, or a racing heartbeat.
    * You are unable to work or function at home or at your job.
    * You have fears that you cannot control.
    * You are having memories of a traumatic event. 

Your provider may refer you to a mental health care provider. You can talk to
this professional about your feelings, what seems to make your stress better
or worse, and why you think you are having this problem. You may also work on
developing ways to reduce stress in your life.

## Alternative Names

Anxiety; Feeling uptight; Stress; Tension; Jitters; Apprehension

## Images

    * ![Generalized anxiety disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17191t.jpg)Generalized anxiety disorder
    * ![Stress and anxiety](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9951t.jpg)Stress and anxiety

## References

Ahmed SM, Hershberger PJ, Lemkau JP. Psychosocial influences on health. In:
Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

National Institute of Mental Health website. 5 things you should know about
stress. www.nimh.nih.gov/health/publications/stress/index.shtml. Accessed June
1, 2018.

Vaccarino V, Bremner JD. Psychiatric and behavioral aspects of cardiovascular
disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 96.

## Review Date 5/5/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Anxiety _Read
more_

![Stress](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stress_thumb.jpg)Stress _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

