Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000768.htm    
                                Description: Stress is the way your mind and body react to a threat or a challenge. Simple things, like a crying child, can cause stress. You also feel stress when you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stress and your heart

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000768.htm

# Stress and your heart

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stress is the way your mind and body react to a threat or a challenge. Simple
things, like a crying child, can cause stress. You also feel stress when
you're in danger, like during a robbery or car crash. Even positive things,
like getting married, can be stressful.

Stress is a fact of life. But when it adds up, it can affect your mental and
physical health. Too much stress can also be bad for your heart.

## Your Body and Stress

Your body responds to stress on many levels. First, it releases stress
hormones that make you breathe faster. Your blood pressure goes up. Your
muscles tense up and your mind races. All of this puts you in gear to deal
with an immediate threat.

The problem is that your body reacts the same way to all types of stress, even
when you're not in danger. Over time, these stress-related reactions can cause
health problems.

Common symptoms of stress include:

    * Upset stomach
    * Inability to focus
    * Trouble sleeping
    * Headaches
    * Anxiety
    * Mood swings 

## Stress and Heart Disease

When you are stressed, you are also more likely to do things that are bad for
your heart, such as smoke, drink heavily, or eat foods high in salt, sugar,
and fat.

Even on its own, constant stress can strain your heart in several ways.

    * Stress raises blood pressure.
    * Stress increases inflammation in your body.
    * Stress can increase cholesterol and triglycerides in your blood.
    * Extreme stress can make your heart beat out of rhythm. 

## Harmful Kinds of Stress for Your Heart

Some sources of stress come at you fast. Others are with you every day. You
can protect yourself from some stress. But other stressors are beyond your
control. All of these factors have an impact on how stressed you feel and for
how long.

The following types of stress are the worst for your heart.

    *  **Chronic stress.** The daily stress of a bad boss or relationship woes can put constant pressure on your heart.
    *  **Helplessness.** Long-term (chronic) stress is even more harmful when you feel unable to do anything about it.
    *  **Loneliness.** Stress can be more harmful if you do not have a support system to help you cope.
    *  **Anger.** People who blow up in anger have a higher risk of heart attack and stroke.
    *  **Acute stress.** In rare cases, extremely bad news can bring on heart attack symptoms. This is called broken heart syndrome. This is not the same thing as a heart attack, and most people recover fully.

## When you Have Heart Disease

Heart disease itself can be stressful. Many people feel anxious and depressed
after a heart attack or surgery. This is natural, but it can also get in the
way of recovery.

Stress may be more damaging if you have heart disease. You might feel more
pain, have more trouble sleeping, and have less energy for rehab. Depression
can also increase your risk for another heart attack. And it can make it
harder for you to believe you will be healthy again.

## What you can do

It is important to learn how to manage stress. Finding healthy ways to deal
with stress can improve your mood and help you avoid unhealthy behaviors, like
overeating or smoking. Try different ways to relax, and see what works best
for you, such as:

    * Practicing yoga or meditation
    * Spending time outdoors in nature
    * Getting regular exercise
    * Sitting quietly and focusing on your breathing for 10 minutes each day
    * Spending time with friends
    * Escaping with a movie or a good book
    * Making time every day for the things that reduce stress 

If you are having trouble managing stress on your own, consider a stress
management class. You can find classes at local hospitals, community centers,
or adult education programs.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if stress or depression makes it hard to do
daily activities. Your provider may recommend therapy to help you get
stressful events or feelings under control.

## Alternative Names

Coronary heart disease - stress; Coronary artery disease - stress

## References

Cohen BE, Edmondson D, Kronish IM. State of the art review: depression,
stress, anxiety, and cardiovascular disease. _Am J Hypertens_.
2015;28(11):1295-1302. PMID: 25911639 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25911639.

Crum-Cianflone NF, Bagnell ME, Schaller E, et al. Impact of combat deployment
and posttraumatic stress disorder on newly reported coronary heart disease
among US active duty and reserve forces. _Circulation_.
2014;129(18):1813-1820. PMID: 24619462 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24619462.

Vaccarino V, Bremner JD. Psychiatric and behavioral aspects of cardiovascular
disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 96.

Wei J, Rooks C, Ramadan R, et al. Meta-analysis of mental stress-induced
myocardial ischemia and subsequent cardiac events in patients with coronary
artery disease. _Am J Cardiol_. 2014;114(2):187-192. PMID: 24856319
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24856319.

Williams RB. Anger and mental stress-induced myocardial ischemia: mechanisms
and clinical implications. _Am Heart J_. 2015;169(1):4-5. PMID: 25497241
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25497241.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * How to Prevent Heart Disease
    * How to Prevent High Blood Pressure
    * Stress

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

