Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000874.htm    
                                Description: Chronic stress can be bad for your body and mind. It can put you at risk for health problems such as high blood pressure, stomachaches, headaches, anxiety, and depression. Using relaxation techniques can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Relaxation techniques for stress

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000874.htm

# Relaxation techniques for stress

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic stress can be bad for your body and mind. It can put you at risk for
health problems such as high blood pressure, stomachaches, headaches, anxiety,
and depression. Using relaxation techniques can help you feel calm. These
exercises can also help you manage stress and ease the effects of stress on
your body.

## How Relaxation Helps

When you feel stress, your body responds by releasing hormones that increase
your blood pressure and raise your heart rate. This is called the stress
response.

Relaxation techniques can help your body relax and lower your blood pressure
and heart rate. This is called a relaxation response. There are several
exercises you can try. See which ones work best for you.

## Deep Breathing

One of the simplest ways to relax is by practicing deep breathing. You can do
deep breathing almost anywhere.

    * Sit still or lie down and place one hand on your stomach. Put your other hand over your heart.
    * Inhale slowly until you feel your stomach rise.
    * Hold your breath for a moment.
    * Exhale slowly, feeling your stomach fall. 

There are also many other types of breathing techniques you can learn. In many
cases, you do not need much instruction to do them on your own.

## Meditation

Meditation involves focusing your attention to help you feel more relaxed.
Practicing meditation may help you react in a calmer way to your emotions and
thoughts, including those that cause stress. Meditation has been practiced for
thousands of years, and there are several different styles.

Most types of meditation usually include:

    *  **Focused attention.** You might focus on your breath, an object, or a set of words.
    *  **Quiet.** Most meditation is done in a quiet area to limit distractions.
    *  **Body position.** Most people think meditation is done while sitting, but it can also be done lying down, walking, or standing.
    *  **An open attitude.** This means that you stay open to thoughts that come into your mind during meditation. Instead of judging these thoughts, you let them go by bringing your attention back to your focus.
    *  **Relaxed breathing.** During meditation, you breathe slowly and calmly. This also helps you relax. 

## Biofeedback

Biofeedback teaches you how to control some of your body's functions, such as
your heart rate or certain muscles.

In a typical session, a biofeedback therapist attaches sensors to different
areas of your body. These sensors measure your skin temperature, brain waves,
breathing, and muscle activity. You can see these readings on a monitor. Then
you practice changing your thoughts, behaviors, or emotions to help control
your body's responses. Over time, you can learn to change them without using
the monitor.

## Progressive Relaxation

This is another simple technique that you can do almost anywhere. Starting
with your toes and feet, focus on tightening your muscles for a few moments
and then releasing them. Continue with this process, working your way up your
body, focusing on one group of muscles at a time.

## Yoga

Yoga is an ancient practice rooted in Indian philosophy. The practice of yoga
combines postures or movements with focused breathing and meditation. The
postures are meant to increase strength and flexibility. Postures range from
simple poses lying on the floor to more complex poses that may require years
of practice. You can modify most yoga postures based on your own ability.

There are many different styles of yoga that range from slow to vigorous. If
you are thinking about starting yoga, look for a teacher who can help you
practice safely. Make sure to tell your teacher about any injuries.

## Tai Chi

Tai chi was first practiced in ancient China for self-defense. Today, it is
used mainly to improve health. It is a low-impact, gentle type of exercise
that is safe for people of all ages.

There are many styles of tai chi, but all involve the same basic principles:

    *  **Slow, relaxed movements.** The movements in tai chi are slow, but your body is always moving.
    *  **Careful postures.** You hold specific postures as you move your body.
    *  **Concentration.** You are encouraged to put aside distracting thoughts while you practice.
    *  **Focused breathing.** During tai chi, your breathing should be relaxed and deep. 

If you are interested in tai chi for stress relief, you may want to start with
a class. For many people, it is the easiest way to learn the proper movements.
You can also find books and videos about tai chi.

## For More Information

You can learn more about any of these techniques through local classes, books,
videos, or online.

## Alternative Names

Relaxation response techniques; Relaxation exercises

## References

Minichiello VJ. Relaxation techniques. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 94.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. 5 things to
know about relaxation techniques for stress. nccih.nih.gov/health/tips/stress.
Updated September 24, 2015. Accessed August 13, 2018.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. Meditation:
in depth. nccih.nih.gov/health/meditation/overview.htm. Updated April 2016.
Accessed August 13, 2018.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. Relaxation
techniques for health. nccih.nih.gov/health/stress/relaxation.htm. Updated May
2016. Accessed August 13, 2018.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. Tai Chi and
Qi Gong. nccih.nih.gov/health/taichi. Updated September 24, 2017. Accessed
August 13, 2018.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. Yoga: in
depth. nccih.nih.gov/health/yoga/introduction.htm. Updated June 2013. Accessed
August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Stress

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

