Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000932.htm    
                                Description: Adjustment disorder is a group of symptoms, such as stress, feeling sad or hopeless, and physical symptoms that can occur after you go through a stressful life event.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adjustment disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000932.htm

# Adjustment disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adjustment disorder is a group of symptoms, such as stress, feeling sad or
hopeless, and physical symptoms that can occur after you go through a
stressful life event.

The symptoms occur because you are having a hard time coping. Your reaction is
stronger than expected for the type of event that occurred.

## Causes

Many different events may trigger symptoms of an adjustment disorder. Whatever
the trigger is, the event may become too much for you.

Stressors for people of any age include:

    * Death of a loved one 
    * Divorce or problems with a relationship 
    * General life changes 
    * Illness or other health issues in yourself or a loved one 
    * Moving to a different home or a different city 
    * Unexpected catastrophes 
    * Worries about money 

Triggers of stress in teenagers and young adults may include:

    * Family problems or conflict
    * School problems
    * Sexuality issues 

There is no way to predict which people who are affected by the same stress
are likely to develop adjustment disorder. Your social skills before the event
and how you have learned to deal with stress in the past may play roles.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of adjustment disorder are often severe enough to affect work or
social life. Symptoms include:

    * Acting defiant or showing impulsive behavior
    * Acting nervous or tense
    * Crying, feeling sad or hopeless, and possibly withdrawing from other people
    * Skipped heartbeats and other physical complaints
    * Trembling or twitching 

To have adjustment disorder, you must have the following:

    * The symptoms clearly come after a stressor, most often within 3 months
    * The symptoms are more severe than would be expected
    * There do not appear to be other disorders involved
    * The symptoms are not part of normal grieving for the death of a loved one 

Sometimes, symptoms can be severe and the person may have thoughts of suicide
or make a suicide attempt.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a mental health assessment to find out about
your behavior and symptoms. You may be referred to a psychiatrist to confirm
the diagnosis.

## Treatment

The main goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms and help you return to a
similar level of functioning as before the stressful event occurred.

Most mental health professionals recommend some type of talk therapy. This
type of therapy can help you identify or change your responses to the
stressors in your life.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a type of talk therapy. It can help you
deal with your feelings:

    * First the therapist helps you recognize the negative feelings and thoughts that occur.
    * Then the therapist teaches you how to change these into helpful thoughts and healthy actions. 

Other types of therapy may include:

    * Long-term therapy, where you will explore your thoughts and feelings over many months or more 
    * Family therapy, where you will meet with a therapist along with your family 
    * Self-help groups, where the support of others may help you get better 

Medicines may be used, but only along with talk therapy. These medicines may
help if you are:

    * Nervous or anxious most of the time
    * Not sleeping very well
    * Very sad or depressed 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With the right help and support, you should get better quickly. The problem
usually does not last longer than 6 months, unless the stressor continues to
be present.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you develop symptoms of
adjustment disorder.

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Trauma- and stressor-related disorders. In:
American Psychiatric Association, ed. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing;
2013:265-290.

Powell AD. Grief, bereavement, and adjustment disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Mental
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MentalDisorder_thumb.jpg)Mental
Disorders _Read more_

![Stress](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stress_thumb.jpg)Stress _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

