Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001942.htm    
                                Description: We all feel stress at one time or another. It    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Learn to manage stress

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001942.htm

# Learn to manage stress

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

We all feel stress at one time or another. It's a normal and healthy reaction
to change or a challenge. But stress that goes on for more than a few weeks
can affect your health. Keep stress from making you sick by learning healthy
ways to manage it.

## Information

LEARN TO RECOGNIZE STRESS

The first step in managing stress is recognizing it in your life. Everyone
feels stress in a different way. You may get angry or irritable, lose sleep,
or have headaches or stomach upset. What are your signs of stress? Once you
know what signals to look for, you can start to manage it.

Also identify the situations that cause you stress. These are called
stressors. Your stressors could be family, school, work, relationships, money,
or health problems. Once you understand where your stress is coming from, you
can come up with ways to deal with your stressors.

AVOID UNHEALTHY STRESS RELIEF

When you feel stressed, you may fall back on unhealthy behaviors to help you
relax. These may include:

    * Eating too much
    * Smoking cigarettes
    * Drinking alcohol or using drugs
    * Sleeping too much or not sleeping enough

These behaviors may help you feel better at first, but they may hurt you more
than they help. Instead, use the tips below to find healthy ways to reduce
your stress.

FIND HEALTHY STRESS BUSTERS

There are many healthy ways to manage stress. Try a few and see which ones
work best for you.

    *  **Recognize the things you can't change.** Accepting that you can't change certain things allows you to let go and not get upset. For instance, you cannot change the fact that you have to drive during rush hour. But you can look for ways to relax during your commute, such as listening to a podcast or book.
    *  **Avoid stressful situations.** When you can, remove yourself from the source of stress. For example, if your family squabbles during the holidays, give yourself a breather and go out for a walk or drive.
    *  **Get exercise.** Getting physical activity every day is one of the easiest and best ways to cope with stress. When you exercise, your brain releases chemicals that make you feel good. It can also help you release built-up energy or frustration. Find something you enjoy, whether it is walking, cycling, softball, swimming, or dancing, and do it for at least 30 minutes on most days.
    *  **Change your outlook.** Try to develop a more positive attitude toward challenges. You can do this by replacing negative thoughts with more positive ones. For example, rather than thinking, "Why does everything always go wrong?" change this thought to, "I can find a way to get through this." It may seem hard or silly at first, but with practice, you may find it helps turn your outlook around.
    *  **Do something you enjoy.** When stress has you down, do something you enjoy to help pick you up. It could be as simple as reading a good book, listening to music, watching a favorite movie, or having dinner with a friend. Or, take up a new hobby or class. Whatever you choose, try to do at least one thing a day that's just for you.
    *  **Learn new ways to relax.** Practicing relaxation techniques is a great way to handle daily stress. Relaxation techniques help slow your heart rate and lower your blood pressure. There are many types, from deep breathing and meditation to yoga and tai chi. Take a class, or try learning from books, videos, or online sources.
    *  **Connect with loved ones.** Do not let stress get in the way of being social. Spending time with family and friends can help you feel better and forget about your stress. Confiding in a friend may also help you work out your problems.
    *  **Get enough sleep.** Getting a good night's sleep can help you think more clearly and have more energy. This will make it easier to handle any problems that crop up. Aim for about 7 to 9 hours each night.
    *  **Maintain a healthy diet.** Eating healthy foods helps fuel your body and mind. Skip the high-sugar snack foods and load up on vegetables, fruits, whole grains, low-fat or nonfat dairy, and lean proteins.
    *  **Learn to say no.** If your stress comes from taking on too much at home or work, learn to set limits. Ask others for help when you need it.

RESOURCES

If you can't manage stress on your own, you may want to talk with your health
care provider. Or consider seeing a therapist or counselor who can help you
find other ways to deal with your stress. Depending on the cause of your
stress, you also may find it helps to join a support group.

## Alternative Names

Stress - managing; Stress - recognizing; Stress - relaxation techniques

## Images

    * ![Flexibility exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19391t.jpg)Flexibility exercise
    * ![Warming up and cooling down](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19397t.jpg)Warming up and cooling down
    * ![Stress and anxiety](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9951t.jpg)Stress and anxiety

## References

Ahmed SM, Hershberger PJ, Lemkau JP. Psychosocial influences on health. In:
Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 3.

American Academy of Family Physicians website. Managing daily stress.
familydoctor.org/stress-how-to-cope-better-with-lifes-challenges. Updated
December 21, 2016. Accessed October 15, 2018.

National Institute of Mental Health website. 5 things you should know about
stress. www.nimh.nih.gov/health/publications/stress/index.shtml. Accessed
October 15, 2018.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Stress](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stress_thumb.jpg)Stress _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

