Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002059.htm    
                                Description: Childhood stress can be present in any setting that requires the child to adapt or change. Stress may be caused by positive changes, such as starting a new activity, but it is most commonly linked with    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stress in childhood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002059.htm

# Stress in childhood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Childhood stress can be present in any setting that requires the child to
adapt or change. Stress may be caused by positive changes, such as starting a
new activity, but it is most commonly linked with negative changes such as
illness or death in the family.

You can help your child by learning to recognize the signs of stress and
teaching your child healthy ways to deal with it.

## Information

Stress may be a response to a negative change in a child's life. In small
amounts, stress can be good. But, excessive stress can affect the way a child
thinks, acts, and feels.

Children learn how to respond to stress as they grow and develop. Many
stressful events that an adult can manage will cause stress in a child. As a
result, even small changes can impact a child's feelings of safety and
security.

Pain, injury, illness, and other changes are stressors for children. Stressors
may include:

    * Worrying about schoolwork or grades
    * Juggling responsibilities, such as school and work or sports
    * Problems with friends, bullying, or peer group pressures
    * Changing schools, moving, or dealing with housing problems or homelessness
    * Having negative thoughts about themselves
    * Going through body changes, in both boys and girls
    * Seeing parents go through a divorce or separation
    * Money problems in the family
    * Living in an unsafe home or neighborhood

SIGNS OF UNRESOLVED STRESS IN CHILDREN

Children may not recognize that they are stressed. New or worsening symptoms
may lead parents to suspect an increased stress level is present.

Physical symptoms can include:

    * Decreased appetite, other changes in eating habits
    * Headache
    * New or recurrent bedwetting
    * Nightmares
    * Sleep disturbances
    * Upset stomach or vague stomach pain
    * Other physical symptoms with no physical illness 

Emotional or behavioral symptoms may include:

    * Anxiety, worry
    * Not able to relax
    * New or recurring fears (fear of the dark, fear of being alone, fear of strangers)
    * Clinging, unwilling to let you out of sight
    * Anger, crying, whining
    * Not able to control emotions
    * Aggressive or stubborn behavior
    * Going back to behaviors present at a younger age
    * Doesn't want to participate in family or school activities

HOW PARENTS CAN HELP

Parents can help children respond to stress in healthy ways. Following are
some tips:

    * Provide a safe, secure, and dependable home.
    * Family routines can be comforting. Having a family dinner or movie night can help relieve or prevent stress.
    * Be a role model. The child looks to you as a model for healthy behavior. Do your best to keep your own stress under control and manage it in healthy ways.
    * Be careful about which television programs, books, and games that young children watch, read, and play. News broadcasts and violent shows or games can produce fears and anxiety.
    * Keep your child informed of anticipated changes such as in jobs or moving.
    * Spend calm, relaxed time with your children.
    * Learn to listen. Listen to your child without being critical or trying to solve the problem right away. Instead work with your child to help them understand and solve what is upsetting to them.
    * Build your child's feelings of self-worth. Use encouragement and affection. Use rewards, not punishment. Try to involve your child in activities where they can succeed.
    * Allow the child opportunities to make choices and have some control in their life. The more your child feels they have control over a situation, the better their response to stress will be.
    * Encourage physical activity.
    * Recognize signs of unresolved stress in your child.
    * Seek help or advice from a health care provider, counselor, or therapist when signs of stress do not decrease or disappear.

WHEN TO CALL THE DOCTOR

Talk to your child's provider if your child:

    * Is becoming withdrawn, more unhappy, or depressed
    * Is having problems in school or interacting with friends or family
    * Is unable to control their behavior or anger

## Alternative Names

Fear in children; Anxiety - stress; Childhood stress

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Helping children handle stress.
www.healthychildren.org/English/healthy-living/emotional-
wellness/Pages/Helping-Children-Handle-Stress.aspx. Updated April 26, 2012.
Accessed June 18, 2018.

American Psychological Association website. Identifying signs of stress in
your children and teens. www.apa.org/helpcenter/stress-children.aspx. Accessed
June 18, 2018.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Mental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildMentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Mental Health _Read more_

![Stress](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Stress_thumb.jpg)Stress _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

