Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002458.htm    
                                Description: Nutrition can help enhance athletic performance. An active lifestyle and exercise routine, along with eating well, is the best way to stay healthy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nutrition and athletic performance

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002458.htm

# Nutrition and athletic performance

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nutrition can help enhance athletic performance. An active lifestyle and
exercise routine, along with eating well, is the best way to stay healthy.

Eating a good diet can help provide the energy you need to finish a race, or
just enjoy a casual sport or activity. You are more likely to be tired and
perform poorly during sports when you do not get enough:

    * Calories
    * Carbohydrates
    * Fluids
    * Iron, vitamins, and other minerals
    * Protein 

## Recommendations

The ideal diet for an athlete is not very different from the diet recommended
for any healthy person.

However, the amount of each food group you need will depend on:

    * The type of sport
    * The amount of training you do
    * The amount of time you spend doing the activity or exercise 

People tend to overestimate the amount of calories they burn per workout so it
is important to avoid taking in more energy than you expend exercising.

To help you perform better, avoid exercising on an empty stomach. Everyone is
different, so you will need to learn:

    * How long before exercising is best for you to eat
    * How much food is the right amount for you 

**CARBOHYDRATES**

Carbohydrates are needed to provide energy during exercise. Carbohydrates are
stored mostly in the muscles and liver.

    * Complex carbohydrates are found in foods such as pasta, bagels, whole grain breads, and rice. They provide energy, fiber, vitamins, and minerals. These foods are low in fat.
    * Simple sugars, such as soft drinks, jams and jellies, and candy provide a lot of calories, but they do not provide vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients.
    * What matters most is the total amount of carbohydrates you eat each day. A little more than half of your calories should come from carbohydrates. 

You need to eat carbohydrates before you exercise if you will be exercising
for more than 1 hour. You might have a glass of fruit juice, a cup (245 grams)
of yogurt, or an English muffin with jelly. Limit the amount of fat you
consume in the hour before an athletic event.

You also need carbohydrates during exercise if you will be doing more than an
hour of intense aerobic exercise. You can satisfy this need by having:

    * Five to 10 ounces (150 to 300 milliliters) of a sports drink every 15 to 20 minutes
    * Two to three handfuls of pretzels
    * One-half to two-thirds cup (40 to 55 grams) of low-fat granola 

After exercise, you need to eat carbohydrates to rebuild the stores of energy
in your muscles if you are working out heavily.

    * People who exercise or train for more than 90 minutes should eat or drink more carbohydrates, possibly with protein, 2 hours later. Try a sports bar, trail mix with nuts, or yogurt and granola
    * For workouts lasting less than 60 minute, water is most often all that is needed. 

**PROTEIN**

Protein is important for muscle growth and to repair body tissues. Protein can
also be used by the body for energy, but only after carbohydrate stores have
been used up.

But it is also a myth that a high-protein diet will promote muscle growth.

    * Only strength training and exercise will change muscle.
    * Athletes, even body builders, need only a little bit of extra protein to support muscle growth. Athletes can easily meet this increased need by eating more total calories (eating more food). 

Most Americans already eat almost twice as much protein as they need for
muscle development. Too much protein in the diet:

    * Will be stored as increased body fat
    * Can increase the chance for dehydration (not enough fluids in the body)
    * Can lead to loss of calcium
    * Can put an added burden on the kidneys 

Often, people who focus on eating extra protein may not get enough
carbohydrates, which are the most important source of energy during exercise.

Amino acid supplements and eating a lot of protein are not recommended.

 **WATER AND OTHER FLUIDS**

Water is the most important, yet overlooked, nutrient for athletes. Water and
fluids are essential to keep the body hydrated and at the right temperature.
Your body can lose several liters of sweat in an hour of vigorous exercise.

Clear urine is a good sign that you have fully rehydrated. Some ideas for
keeping enough fluids in the body include:

    * Make sure you drink plenty of fluids with every meal, whether or not you will be exercising.
    * Drink about 16 ounces (2 cups) or 480 milliliters of water 2 hours before a workout. It is important to start exercising with enough water in your body.
    * Continue to sip water during and after you exercise, about 1/2 to 1 cup (120 to 240 milliliters) of fluid every 15 to 20 minutes. Water is best for the first hour. Switching to an energy drink after the first hour will help you get enough electrolytes.
    * Drink even when you no longer feel thirsty.
    * Pouring water over your head might feel good, but it will not get fluids into your body. 

Offer children water often during sports activities. They do not respond to
thirst as well as adults.

Teenagers and adults should replace any body weight lost during exercise with
an equal amount of fluids. For every pound (450 grams) you lose while
exercising, you should drink 16 to 24 ounces (480 to 720 milliliters) or 3
cups (720 milliliters) of fluid within the next 6 hours.

 **ACHIEVING DESIRED WEIGHTS FOR COMPETITIVE PURPOSES**

Changing your body weight to improve performance must be done safely, or it
may do more harm than good. Keeping your body weight too low, losing weight
too quickly, or preventing weight gain in an unnatural way can have negative
health effects. It is important to set realistic body weight goals.

Young athletes who are trying to lose weight should work with a registered
dietitian. Experimenting with diets on your own can lead to poor eating habits
with inadequate or excessive intake of certain nutrients.

Speak with a health care professional to discuss a diet that is right for your
sport, age, gender, and amount of training.

## Alternative Names

Exercise - nutrition; Exercise - fluids; Exercise - hydration

## References

Berning JR. Sports nutrition. In: Madden CC, Putukian M, McCarty EC, Young CC,
eds. _Netter's Sports Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
5.

Buschmann JL, Buell J. Sports nutrition. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR. eds.
_DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 25.

Thomas DT, Erdman KA, Burke LM. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and
Dietetics, Dietitians of Canada, and the American College of Sports Medicine:
nutrition and athletic performance. _J Acad Nutr Diet_. 2016;116(3):501-528.
PMID: 26920240 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26920240.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sports Fitness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biking_thumb.jpg)Sports
Fitness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

