Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000451.htm    
                                Description: Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is a term used to describe a group of disorders in children that includes arthritis. They are long-term (chronic) diseases that cause joint pain and swelling. The names    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Juvenile idiopathic arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000451.htm

# Juvenile idiopathic arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is a term used to describe a group of
disorders in children that includes arthritis. They are long-term (chronic)
diseases that cause joint pain and swelling. The names describing this group
of conditions has changed over the past several decades as more is learned
about the condition.

## Causes

The cause of JIA is not known. It is thought to be an autoimmune illness. This
means the body attacks and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake.

JIA most often develops before age 16. Symptoms may start as early as 6 months
old.

The International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR) has proposed
the following way of grouping this type of childhood arthritis:Â

    * Systemic-onset JIA. Involves joint swelling or pain, fevers, and rash. It is the least common type but it can be the most severe. It appears to be different than the other types of JIA and is similar to Adult Onset Stills Disease.
    * Polyarthritis. Involves many joints. This form of JIA may turn into rheumatoid arthritis. It may involve 5 or more large and small joints of the legs and arms, as well as the jaw and neck. Rheumatoid factor may be present.
    * Oligoarthritis (persistent and extended). Involves 1 to 4 joints, most often the wrists, or knees. It also affects the eyes.
    * Enthesitis-related arthritis. Resembles spondyloarthritis in adults and often involves the sacroiliac joint.
    * Psoriatic arthritis. Diagnosed in children who have arthritis and psoriasis or nail disease, or a have close family member with psoriasis.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of JIA may include:

    * Swollen, red, or warm joint
    * Limping or problems using a limb
    * Sudden high fever, which may come back
    * Rash (on trunk and extremities) that comes and goes with fever
    * Stiffness, pain, and limited movement of a joint
    * Low back pain that does not go away
    * Bodywide symptoms such as pale skin, swollen lymph gland, and a sick appearance 

JIA can also cause eye problems called uveitis, iridocyclitis, or iritis.
There may be no symptoms. When eye symptoms occur, they can include:

    * Red eyes
    * Eye pain, which may get worse when looking at light (photophobia)
    * Vision changes

## Exams and Tests

The physical exam may show swollen, warm, and tender joints that hurt to move.
The child may have a rash. Other signs include:

    * Swollen liver
    * Swollen spleen
    * Swollen lymph nodes

Blood tests may include:

    * Rheumatoid factor
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Antinuclear antibody (ANA)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * HLA-B27

Any or all of these blood tests may be normal in children with JIA.

The health care provider may place a small needle into a swollen joint to
remove fluid. This can help to find the cause of the arthritis. It can also
help relieve pain. The provider may inject steroids into the joint to help
reduce swelling.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * X-ray of a joint
    * Bone scan
    * X-ray of the chest
    * ECG
    * Regular eye exam by an ophthalmologist -- This should be done even if there are no eye symptoms.

## Treatment

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen or naproxen
may be enough to control symptoms when only a small number of joints are
involved.

Corticosteroids may be used for more severe flare-ups to help control
symptoms.Â Because of their toxicity, long-term use of these medicines should
be avoided in children.

Children who have arthritis in many joints, or who have fever, rash, and
swollen glands may need other medicines. These are called disease-modifying
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). They can help reduce swelling in the joints or
body. DMARDs include:

    * Methotrexate
    * Biologic drugs, such as etanercept (Enbrel), infliximab (Remicade), and related drugs

Children with systemic JIA will likely need biologic inhibitors of IL-1 or
IL-6 such as anakinra or tocilizumab.

Children with JIA need to stay active.

Exercise will help keep their muscles and joints strong and mobile.

    * Walking, bicycling, and swimming may be good activities.
    * Children should learn to warm up before exercising.
    * Talk to the doctor or physical therapist about exercises to do when your child is having pain.

Children who have sadness or anger about their arthritis may need extra
support.

Some children with JIA may need surgery, including joint replacement.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with only a few affected joints may have no symptoms for a long
period.

In many children, the disease will become inactive and cause very little joint
damage.

The severity of the disease depends on the number of affected joints. It is
less likely that symptoms will go away in these cases. These children more
often have long-term (chronic) pain, disability, and problems at school.Â Some
children may continue to have arthritis as adults.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Wearing away or destruction of joints (can occur in people with more severe JIA)
    * Slow rate of growth
    * Uneven growth of an arm or leg
    * Loss of vision or decreased vision from chronic uveitis (this problem may be severe, even when the arthritis is not very severe)
    * Anemia
    * Swelling around the heart (pericarditis)
    * Long-term (chronic) pain, poor school attendance 
    * Macrophage activation syndrome, a severe illness that may develop with systemic JIA

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You, or your child, notice symptoms of JIA
    * Symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment
    * New symptoms develop

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for JIA.

## Alternative Names

Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA); Juvenile chronic polyarthritis; Still
disease; Juvenile spondyloarthritis

## References

Beukelman T, Nigrovic PA. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis: an idea whose time
has gone? _J Rheumatol_. 2019;46(2):124-126. PMID: 30710000
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30710000.

Nordal EB, Rygg M, Fasth A. Clinical features of juvenile idiopathic
arthritis. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME,
Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
107.

Ombrello MJ, Arthur VL, Remmers EF, et al. Genetic architecture distinguishes
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis from other forms of juvenile idiopathic
arthritis: clinical and therapeutic implications. _Ann Rheum Dis_.
2017;76(5):906-913. PMID: 27927641 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27927641.

Ringold S, Weiss PF, Beukelman T, et al. 2013 update of the 2011 American
College of Rheumatology recommendations for the treatment of juvenile
idiopathic arthritis: recommendations for the medical therapy of children with
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and tuberculosis screening among
children receiving biologic medications. _Arthritis Rheum_.
2013;65(10):2499-2512. PMID: 24092554 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24092554.

Schulert GS, Minoia F, Bohnsack J, et al. Effect of biologic therapy on
clinical and laboratory features of macrophage activation syndrome associated
with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. _Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken)_.
2018;70(3):409-419. PMID: 28499329 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28499329.

Ter Haar NM, van Dijkhuizen EHP, Swart JF, et al. Treatment to target using
recombinant interleukin-1 receptor antagonist as first-line monotherapy in
new-onset systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis: results from a five year
follow-up study. _Arthritis Rheumatol_. 2019;71(7):1163-1173. PMID: 30848528
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30848528.

Wu EY, Rabinovich CE. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 180.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Juvenile
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JuvenileArthritis_thumb.jpg)Juvenile
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

