Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hiccups.html    
                                Description: What exactly is a hiccup and how do you stop hiccupping once you start? Find out what triggers hiccups and when you should contact your doctor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hiccups

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hiccups.html

#  Hiccups

Also called: Hiccough

## Summary

###  What are hiccups?

Have you ever wondered what is happening when you hiccup? There are two parts
to a hiccup. The first is an involuntary movement of your diaphragm. The
diaphragm is a muscle at the base of your lungs. It is the main muscle used
for breathing. The second part of a hiccup is a quick closing of your vocal
cords. This is what causes the "hic" sound you make.

### What causes hiccups?

Hiccups can start and stop for no obvious reason. But they often happen when
something irritates your diaphragm, such as

    * Eating too quickly
    * Eating too much
    * Eating hot or spicy foods
    * Drinking alcohol
    * Drinking carbonated drinks
    * Diseases that irritate the nerves that control the diaphragm
    * Feeling nervous or excited
    * A bloated stomach
    * Certain medicines
    * Abdominal surgery
    * Metabolic disorders
    * Central nervous system disorders

### How can I get rid of hiccups?

Hiccups usually go away on their own after a few minutes. You have probably
heard different suggestions about how to cure hiccups. There is no proof that
they work, but they are not harmful, so you could try them. They include

    * Breathing into a paper bag
    * Drinking or sipping a glass of cold water
    * Holding your breath
    * Gargling with ice water

### What are the treatments for chronic hiccups?

Some people have chronic hiccups. This means that the hiccups last more than a
few days or keep coming back. Chronic hiccups can interfere with your sleep,
eating, drinking, and talking. If you have chronic hiccups, contact your
health care provider. If you have a condition that is causing the hiccups,
treating that condition may help. Otherwise, treatment options include
medicines, surgery, and other procedures.

## Learn More

    * Chronic Hiccups ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center)
    * Hiccups (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hiccups (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * What Causes Hiccups? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hiccup ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Medication treatment of singultus in palliative care.
    * Article: Acupuncture for hiccups: A systematic review protocol of high-quality randomized trials.
    * Article: Does area postrema syndrome occur in myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-IgG-associated disorders (MOGAD)?
    * Hiccups -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Hiccups](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hiccup.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 30 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

