Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001545.htm    
                                Description: Language disorder in children refers to problems with either of the following:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Language disorders in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001545.htm

# Language disorders in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Language disorder in children refers to problems with either of the following:

    * Getting their meaning or message across to others (expressive language disorder)
    * Understanding the message coming from others (receptive language disorder) 

Children with language disorders are able to produce sounds, and their speech
can be understood.

## Causes

For most infants and children, language develops naturally beginning at birth.
To develop language, a child must be able to hear, see, understand, and
remember. Children must also have the physical ability to form speech.

Up to 1 of every 20 children has symptoms of a language disorder. When the
cause is unknown, it is called a developmental language disorder.

Problems with receptive language skills usually begin before age 4. Some mixed
language disorders are caused by a brain injury. These conditions are
sometimes misdiagnosed as developmental disorders.

Language disorders may occur in children with other developmental problems,
autism spectrum disorder, hearing loss, and learning disabilities. A language
disorder may also be caused by damage to the central nervous system, which is
called aphasia.

Language disorders are rarely caused by a lack of intelligence.

Language disorders are different than delayed language. With delayed language,
the child develops speech and language in the same way as other children, but
later. In language disorders, speech and language do not develop normally. The
child may have some language skills, but not others. Or, the way in which
these skills develop will be different than usual.

## Symptoms

A child with language disorder may haveÂ one orÂ two of the symptoms listed
below, or many of the symptoms. Symptoms can range from mild to severe.

Children with a receptive language disorder have difficulty understanding
language. They may have:

    * A hard time understanding what other people have said
    * Problems following directions that are spoken to them
    * Problems organizing their thoughts 

Children with an expressive language disorder have problems using language to
express what they are thinking or need. These children may:

    * Have a hard time putting words together into sentences, or their sentences may be simple and short and the word order may be off
    * Have difficulty finding the right words when talking, and often use placeholder words such as "um"
    * Have a vocabulary that is below the level of other children the same age
    * Leave words out of sentences when talking
    * Use certain phrases over and over again, and repeat (echo) parts or all of questions
    * Use tenses (past, present, future) improperly 

Because of their language problems, these children may have difficulty in
social settings. At times, language disorders may be part of the cause of
severe behavioral problems.

## Exams and Tests

A medical history may reveal that the child has close relatives who have also
had speech and language problems.

Any child suspected of having this disorder can have standardized receptive
and expressive language tests. A speech and language therapist or
neuropsychologist will administer these tests.

A hearing test called audiometry should also be done to rule out deafness,
which is one of the most common causes of language problems.

## Treatment

Speech and language therapy is the best approach to treating this type of
language disorder.

Counseling, such as talk therapy, is also recommended because of the
possibility of related emotional or behavioral problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies, based on the cause. Brain injury or other structural
problems generally have a poor outcome, in which the child will have long-term
problems with language. Other, more reversible causes can be treated
effectively.

Many children who have language problems during the preschool years will also
have some language problems or learning difficulty later in childhood. They
may also have reading disorders.

## Possible Complications

Difficulty understanding and using language can cause problems with social
interaction and the ability to function independently as an adult.

Reading may be a problem.

Depression, anxiety, and other emotional or behavioral problems may complicate
language disorders.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Parents who are concerned that their child's speech or language is delayed
should see their child's doctor. Ask about getting a referral to a speech and
language therapist.

Children who are diagnosed with this condition may need to be seen by a
neurologist or children's developmental specialist to determine if the cause
can be treated.

Call your child's doctor if you see the following signs that your child does
not understand language well:

    * At 15 months, does not look or point at 5 to 10 people or objects when they are named by a parent or caregiver
    * At 18 months, does not follow simple directions, such as "get your coat"
    * At 24 months, is not able to point to a picture or a part of the body when it is named
    * At 30 months, does not respond out loud or by nodding or shaking the head and asking questions
    * At 36 months, does not follow 2-step directions, and does not understand action words 

Also call if you notice these signs that your child does not use or express
language well:

    * At 15 months, is not using three words
    * At 18 months, is not saying, "Mama," "Dada," or other names
    * At 24 months, is not using at least 25 words
    * At 30 months, is not using two-word phrases, including phrases that include both a noun and a verb
    * At 36 months, does not have at least a 200-word vocabulary, is not asking for items by name, exactly repeats questions spoken by others, language has regressed (become worse), or is not using complete sentences
    * At 48 months, often uses words incorrectly or uses a similar or related word instead of the correct word 

## Alternative Names

Developmental aphasia; Developmental dysphasia; Delayed language; Specific
developmental language disorder; SLI; Communication disorder - language
disorder

## References

American Speech-Language-Hearing Association website. Preschool language
disorders. www.asha.org/public/speech/disorders/Preschool-Language-Disorders.
Accessed May 10, 2018.

Simms MD. Language development and communication disorders. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 35.

Trauner DA, Nass RD. Developmental language disorders. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal
S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Speech and Language Problems in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechandLanguageProblemsinChildren_thumb.jpg)Speech
and Language Problems in Children _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

