Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001640.htm    
                                Description: Tongue tie is when the bottom of the tongue is attached to the floor of the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tongue tie

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001640.htm

# Tongue tie

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tongue tie is when the bottom of the tongue is attached to the floor of the
mouth.

This may make it hard for the tip of the tongue to move freely.

## Causes

The tongue is connected to the bottom of the mouth by a band of tissue called
the lingual frenulum. In people with tongue tie, this band is overly short and
thick. The exact cause of tongue tie is not known. Your genes may play a role.
The problem tends to run in some families.

## Symptoms

In a newborn or infant, the symptoms of tongue tie are similar to the symptoms
in a child who is having problems with breastfeeding. Symptoms may include:

    * Acting irritable or fussy, even after feeding.
    * Difficulty creating or keeping suction on the nipple. The infant may become tired in 1 or 2 minutes, or fall asleep before eating enough.
    * Poor weight gain or weight loss.
    * Problems latching onto the nipple. The infant may just chew on the nipple instead. 

The breastfeeding mother may have problems with breast pain, plugged milk
ducts, or painful breasts, and may feel frustrated.

## Exams and Tests

Most experts do not recommend that health care providers examine newborns for
tongue tie unless there are breastfeeding problems.

Most providers only consider tongue tie when:

    * The mother and baby have had problems starting breastfeeding.
    * The mother has received at least 2 to 3 days of support from a breastfeeding (lactation) specialist. 

## Treatment

Most breastfeeding problems can be managed easily. A person who specializes in
breastfeeding (lactation consultant) can help with breastfeeding issues.

Tongue tie surgery, called a frenulotomy, is rarely needed. The surgery
involves cutting and releasing the tethered frenulum under the tongue. It is
most often done in the provider's office. Infection or bleeding afterward is
possible, but rare.

Surgery for more severe cases is done in a hospital operating room. A surgical
procedure called a z-plasty closure may be needed to prevent scar tissue from
forming.

## Possible Complications

On rare occasions, tongue tie has been linked to problems with tooth
development, swallowing, or speech.

## Alternative Names

Ankyloglossia

## References

Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM. Protocol 11: guidelines for the evaluation and
management of neonatal ankyloglossia and its complications in the
breastfeeding dyad. In: Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM, eds. _Breastfeeding: A Guide
for the Medical Profession_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:874-878.

Tinanoff N. Common lesions of the oral soft tissues. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 315.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Speech and Language Problems in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpeechandLanguageProblemsinChildren_thumb.jpg)Speech
and Language Problems in Children _Read more_

![Tongue
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TongueDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tongue
Disorders _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

