Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000852.htm    
                                Description: Acanthosis nigricans (AN) is a skin disorder in which there is darker, thick, velvety skin in body folds and creases.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acanthosis nigricans

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000852.htm

# Acanthosis nigricans

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acanthosis nigricans (AN) is a skin disorder in which there is darker, thick,
velvety skin in body folds and creases.

## Causes

AN can affect otherwise healthy people. It can also be related to medical
problems, such as:

    * Genetic disorders, including Down syndrome and AlstrÃ¶m syndrome
    * Hormone disorders, such as diabetes, obesity
    * Cancer, such as cancer of the digestive system, liver, kidney, bladder, or lymphoma
    * Some medicines, including hormones such as human growth hormone or birth control pills 

## Symptoms

AN usually appears slowly and doesn't cause any symptoms other than skin
changes.

Eventually, dark, velvety skin with very visible markings and creases appears
in the armpits, groin and neck folds, and over the joints of the fingers and
toes.

Sometimes, the lips, palms, soles of the feet, or other areas are affected.
These symptoms are more common in people with cancer.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose AN by looking at your skin. A
skin biopsy may be needed in rare cases.

If there is no clear cause of AN, your provider may order tests. These may
include:

    * Blood tests to check blood sugar level or insulin level
    * Endoscopy
    * X-rays 

## Treatment

No treatment is needed, as AN only causes a change in skin color. If the
condition is affecting your appearance, using moisturizers containing ammonium
lactate, tretinoin, or hydroquinone can help lighten the skin. Your provider
may also suggest laser treatment.

It is important, however, to treat any underlying medical problem that may be
causing these skin changes. When AN is related to obesity, losing weight often
improves the condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

AN often disappears if the cause can be found and treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop areas of thick, dark, velvety skin.

## Alternative Names

AN; Skin pigment disorder - acanthosis nigricans

## Images

    * ![Acanthosis nigricans - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2352t.jpg)Acanthosis nigricans - close-up
    * ![Acanthosis nigricans on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2353t.jpg)Acanthosis nigricans on the hand

## References

Habif TP. Cutaneous manifestations of internal disease. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Patterson JW. Miscellaneous conditions. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

