Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003224.htm    
                                Description: Patchy skin color is areas where the skin color is irregular with lighter or darker areas. Mottling or mottled skin refers to blood vessel changes in the skin that cause a patchy appearance.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Patchy skin color

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003224.htm

# Patchy skin color

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Patchy skin color is areas where the skin color is irregular with lighter or
darker areas. Mottling or mottled skin refers to blood vessel changes in the
skin that cause a patchy appearance.

## Considerations

Irregular or patchy discoloration of the skin can be caused by:

    * Changes in melanin, a substance produced in the skin cells that gives skin its color
    * Growth of bacteria or other organisms on the skin
    * Blood vessel (vascular) changes 
    * Inflammation due to certain rashes

The following can increase or decrease melanin production:

    * Your genes
    * Heat
    * Injury
    * Exposure to radiation (such as from the sun)
    * Exposure to heavy metals
    * Changes in hormone levels 
    * Certain conditions such as vitiligo
    * Certain fungal infections
    * Certain rashes

Exposure to sun or ultraviolet (UV) light, especially after taking a medicine
called psoralens, may increase skin color (pigmentation). Increased pigment
production is called hyperpigmentation, and can result from certain rashes as
well as sun exposure.

Decreased pigment production is called hypopigmentation.

Skin color changes can be their own condition, or they may be caused by other
medical conditions or disorders.

How much skin pigmentation you have can help determine which skin diseases you
may be more likely to develop. For example, lighter-skinned people are more
sensitive to sun exposure and damage. This raises the risk of skin cancers.
But even in darker-skinned people, too much sun exposure can lead to skin
cancers.

Examples of the most common skin cancers are basal cell carcinoma, squamous
cell carcinoma, and melanoma.

Generally, skin color changes are cosmetic and do not affect physical health.
But, mental stress can occur because of pigment changes. Some pigment changes
may be a sign that you are at risk for other medical problems.

## Causes

Causes of pigment changes may include any of the following:

    * Acne
    * CafÃ©-au-lait spots Â Â Â 
    * Cuts, scrapes, wounds, insect bites and minor skin infections
    * Erythrasma
    * Melasma (chloasma)
    * Melanoma
    * Moles (nevi), bathing trunk nevi, or giant nevi
    * Mongolian blue spots
    * Pityriasis alba
    * Radiation therapy
    * Rashes
    * Sensitivity to the sun due to medicine reactions or certain drugs
    * Sunburn or suntan
    * Tinea versicolor
    * Unevenly applying sunscreen, leading to areas of burn, tan, and no tan
    * Vitiligo
    * Acanthosis nigricans

## Home Care

In some cases, normal skin color returns on its own.

You may use lotions that bleach or lighten the skin to reduce discoloration or
to even the skin tone where hyperpigmented areas are large or very noticeable.
Check with your skin doctor first about using such products. Follow the
instructions on the package about how to use such products.

Selenium sulfide (Selsun Blue), ketoconazole, or tolnaftate (Tinactin) lotion
can help treat tinea versicolor, which is a fungal infection that can appear
as hypopigmented patches. Apply as directed to the affected area daily until
the discolored patches disappear. Tinea versicolor often returns, even with
treatment.

You may use cosmetics or skin dyes to hide skin color changes. Makeup can also
help hide mottled skin, but it will not cure the problem.

Avoid too much sun exposure and use sunblock with an SPF of at least 30.
Hypopigmented skin sunburns easily, and hyperpigmented skin may get even
darker. In darker-skinned people, skin damage may cause permanent
hyperpigmentation.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your doctor if:

    * You have any lasting skin color changes that do not have a known cause
    * You notice a new mole or other growth
    * An existing growth has changed color, size, or appearance 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The doctor will carefully examine your skin and ask about your medical
history. You will also be asked about your skin symptoms, such as when you
first noticed your skin color change, if it started suddenly, and if you had
any skin injuries.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Scrapings of skin lesions 
    * Skin biopsy
    * Wood lamp (ultraviolet light) examination of the skin
    * Blood tests

Treatment will depend on the diagnosis of your skin problem.

## Alternative Names

Dyschromia; Mottling

## Images

    * ![Acanthosis nigricans - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2352t.jpg)Acanthosis nigricans - close-up
    * ![Acanthosis nigricans on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2353t.jpg)Acanthosis nigricans on the hand
    * ![Neurofibromatosis - giant cafe-au-lait spot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2447t.jpg)Neurofibromatosis - giant cafe-au-lait spot
    * ![Vitiligo - drug induced](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2486t.jpg)Vitiligo - drug induced
    * ![Vitiligo on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2487t.jpg)Vitiligo on the face
    * ![Cutis marmorata on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2872t.jpg)Cutis marmorata on the leg
    * ![Halo nevus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1814t.jpg)Halo nevus

## References

Patterson JW. Disorders of pigmentation. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 10.

Ubriani RR, Clarke LE, Ming ME. Non-neoplastic disorders of pigmentation. In:
Busam KJ, ed. _Dermatopathology_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 7.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

