Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001479.htm    
                                Description: Albinism is a defect of melanin production. Melanin is a natural substance in the body that gives color to your hair, skin, and iris of the eye. &#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Albinism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001479.htm

# Albinism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Albinism is a defect of melanin production. Melanin is a natural substance in
the body that gives color to your hair, skin, and iris of the eye.

## Causes

Albinism occurs when one of several genetic defects makes the body unable to
produce or distribute melanin.

These defects may be passed down (inherited) through families.

The most severe form of albinism is called oculocutaneous albinism. People
with this type of albinism have white or pink hair, skin, and iris color. They
also have vision problems.

Another type of albinism, called ocular albinism type 1 (OA1), affects only
the eyes. The person's skin and eye color are usually in the normal range.
However, an eye exam will show that there is no coloring in the back of the
eye (retina).

Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS) is a form of albinism caused by a change to aÂ
single gene. It can occur with a bleeding disorder, as well as with lung,
kidney, and bowel diseases.

## Symptoms

A person with albinism will have one of these symptoms:

    * No color in the hair, skin, or iris of the eye
    * Lighter than normal skin and hair
    * Patches of missing skin color 

Many forms of albinism are associated with the following symptoms:

    * Crossed eyes
    * Light sensitivity
    * Rapid eye movements
    * Vision problems, or functional blindness

## Exams and Tests

Genetic testing offers the most accurate way to diagnose albinism. Such
testing is helpful if you have a family history of albinism. It is also useful
for certain groups of people who are known to get the disease.

YourÂ health care providerÂ may also diagnose the condition based on the
appearance of your skin, hair, and eyes. An eye doctor called an
ophthalmologist may perform an electroretinogram.Â This is a test that can
reveal vision problems related to albinism. A test called aÂ visual evoked
potentials test can be very useful when the diagnosis is uncertain.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms. It will depend on how severe the
disorder is.

Treatment involves protecting the skin and eyes from the sun. To do this:

    * Reduce sunburn risk by avoiding the sun, using sunscreen, and covering up completely with clothing when exposed to the sun.
    * Use sunscreen withÂ a high sun protection factor (SPF).
    * Wear sunglasses (UV protected)Â to helpÂ relieve light sensitivity. 

Glasses are often prescribed to correct vision problems and eye position. Eye
muscle surgery is sometimes recommended to correct abnormal eye movements.

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information and resources:

    * National Organization for Albinism and Hypopigmentation -- www.albinism.org
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/ocular-albinism

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Albinism does not usually affect lifespan. However, HPS can shorten a person's
lifespan due to lung disease or bleeding problems.

People with albinism may be limited in their activities because they can't
tolerate the sun.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Decreased vision, blindness
    * Skin cancer

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have albinism or symptoms such as light sensitivity
that cause discomfort. Also call if you notice any skin changes that might be
an early sign of skin cancer.

## Prevention

Because albinism is inherited, genetic counseling is important. People with a
family history of albinism or very light coloring should consider genetic
counseling.

## Alternative Names

Oculocutaneous albinism; Ocular albinism

## Images

    * ![Melanin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9620t.jpg)Melanin

## References

Cheng KP. Ophthalmology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli
and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.

Galbraith SS. Hypopigmented lesions. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 653.

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Disorders of pigmentation. In: Paller AS, Mancini AJ,
eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric Dermatology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 11.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

