Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003242.htm    
                                Description: Abnormally dark or light skin is skin that has turned darker or lighter than normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abnormally dark or light skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003242.htm

# Abnormally dark or light skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abnormally dark or light skin is skin that has turned darker or lighter than
normal.

## Considerations

Normal skin contains cells called melanocytes. These cells produce melanin,
the substance that gives skin its color.

Skin with too much melanin is called hyperpigmented skin.

Skin with too little melanin is called hypopigmented. Skin with no melanin at
all is called depigmented.

Pale skin areas are due to too little melanin or underactive melanocytes.
Darker areas of skin (or an area that tans more easily) occurs when you have
more melanin or overactive melanocytes.

Bronzing of the skin may sometimes be mistaken for a suntan. This skin
discoloration often develops slowly, starting at the elbows, knuckles, and
knees and spreading from there. Bronzing may also be seen on the soles of the
feet and the palms of the hands. The bronze color can range from light to dark
(in fair-skinned people) with the degree of darkness due to the underlying
cause.

## Causes

Causes of hyperpigmentation include:

    * Skin inflammation (post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation)
    * Use of certain drugs (such as minocycline, certain cancer chemotherapies and birth control pills)
    * Hormone system diseases such as Addison disease
    * Hemochromatosis (iron overload)
    * Sun exposure
    * Pregnancy (melasma, or mask of pregnancy) 
    * Certain birthmarks

Causes of hypopigmentation include:

    * Skin inflammation
    * Certain fungal infections (such as tinea versicolor)
    * Pityriasis alba
    * Vitiligo
    * Certain medicines
    * Skin condition called idiopathic guttate hyomelanosis in sun exposed areas such as the arms 
    * Certain birthmarks

## Home Care

Over-the-counter and prescription creams are available for lightening the
skin. Hydroquinone combined with tretinoin is an effective combination. If you
use these creams, follow instructions carefully, and don't use one for more
than 3 weeks at a time. Darker skin requires greater care when using these
preparations. Cosmetics may also help mask a discoloration.

Avoid too much sun exposure. Always use sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher.

Abnormally dark skin may continue even after treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider for an appointment if you have:

    * Skin discoloration that causes significant concern
    * Persistent, unexplained darkening or lightening of the skin
    * Any skin sore or lesion that changes shape, size, or color may be a sign of skin cancer 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms,
including:

    * When did the discoloration develop?
    * Did it develop suddenly?
    * Is it getting worse? How fast?
    * Has it spread to other parts of the body?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * Has anyone else in your family had a similar problem?
    * How often are you in the sun? Do you use a sun lamp or go to tanning salons?
    * What is your diet like?
    * What other symptoms do you have? For example, are there any rashes or skin lesions? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Adrenocorticotropin hormone stimulation test
    * Skin biopsy
    * Thyroid function studies
    * Wood lamp test
    * KOH test

Your provider may recommend creams, ointments, surgery, or phototherapy,
depending on the type of skin condition you have. Bleaching creams can help
lighten dark areas of skin.

Some skin color changes may return to normal without treatment.

## Alternative Names

Hyperpigmentation; Hypopigmentation; Skin - abnormally light or dark

## Images

    * ![Vitiligo - drug induced](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2486t.jpg)Vitiligo - drug induced
    * ![Vitiligo on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2487t.jpg)Vitiligo on the face
    * ![Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2860t.jpg)Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg
    * ![Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2861t.jpg)Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg
    * ![Hyperpigmentation 2](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2973t.jpg)Hyperpigmentation 2
    * ![Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation - calf](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2974t.jpg)Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation - calf
    * ![Hyperpigmentation w/malignancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2980t.jpg)Hyperpigmentation w/malignancy
    * ![Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation 2](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2981t.jpg)Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation 2

## References

Chang MW. Disorders of hyperpigmentation. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
67.

Passeron T, Ortonne JP. Vitiligo and other disorders of hypopigmentation. In:
Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 66.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

