Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001461.htm    
                                Description: Hypomelanosis of Ito (HMI) is a very rare birth defect that causes unusual patches of light-colored (hypopigmented) skin and may be associated with eye, nervous system, and skeletal problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypomelanosis of Ito

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001461.htm

# Hypomelanosis of Ito

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypomelanosis of Ito (HMI) is a very rare birth defect that causes unusual
patches of light-colored (hypopigmented) skin and may be associated with eye,
nervous system, and skeletal problems.

## Causes

Health care providers do not know the exact cause of HMI, but they believe it
may involve a genetic condition called mosaicism. It is twice as common in
girls as in boys.

## Symptoms

Skin symptoms are most often visible by the time a child is about 2 years old.

Other symptoms develop as the child grows, and may include:

    * Crossed eyes (strabismus)
    * Hearing problems
    * Increased body hair (hirsutism)
    * Scoliosis
    * Seizures
    * Streaked, whorled or mottled patches of skin on the arms, legs, and middle of the body
    * Intellectual disability, including autism spectrum and learning disability
    * Mouth or tooth problems 

## Exams and Tests

Ultraviolet light (Wood lamp) examination of the skin lesions may help confirm
the diagnosis.

Tests that may be done include any of the following:

    * CT or MRI scan of the head forÂ a child with seizures and nervous system symptoms
    * X-rays forÂ a childÂ with skeletal problems
    * EEG to measure electrical activity of the brain inÂ a childÂ with seizures
    * Genetic testing

## Treatment

There is no treatment for the skin patches. Cosmetics or clothing may be used
to cover the patches. Seizures, scoliosis, and other problems are treated as
needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the type and severity of symptoms that develop. In most
cases, skin color eventually turns to normal.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may result from HMI include:

    * Discomfort and walking problems due to scoliosis
    * Emotional distress, related to the physical appearance
    * Intellectual disability
    * Injury from seizures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has an unusual pattern of the color of the
skin.Â However, any unusual patterns are likely to have another cause than
HMI.

## Alternative Names

Incontinentia pigmenti achromians; HMI; Ito hypomelanosis

## References

Joyce JC. Hypopigmented lesions. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 672.

Patterson JW. Disorders of pigmentation. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

