Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000836.htm    
                                Description: Melasma are patches of dark skin that appear on areas of the face that are exposed to the sun.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Melasma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000836.htm

# Melasma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Melasma are patches of dark skin that appear on areas of the face that are
exposed to the sun.

## Causes

Melasma is a common skin disorder. It most often appears in young women with
brownish skin tone, but it can affect anyone.

Melasma is often associated with the female hormones estrogen and
progesterone. It is common in:

    * Pregnant women
    * Women taking birth control pills (oral contraceptives)
    * Women taking hormone replacement therapy (HRT) during menopause. 

Being in the sun makes melasma more likely to develop. The problem is more
common in tropical climates.

## Symptoms

The only symptom of melasma is a change in skin color. However, this color
change can cause distress about your appearance.

The skin color changes are most often an even brown color. They usually appear
on the cheeks, forehead, nose, or upper lip. Dark patches are usually
symmetrical.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your skin to diagnose the problem. A
closer exam using a device called a Wood's lamp (which uses ultraviolet light)
may help guide your treatment.

## Treatment

Treatments may include:

    * Creams that contain certain substances to improve the appearance of melasma
    * Chemical peels or topical steroid creams
    * Laser treatments to remove the dark pigment if melasma is severe
    * Stopping hormone medicines that may be causing the problem
    * Medicines taken by mouth

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Melasma often fades over several months after you stop taking hormone
medicines or your pregnancy ends. The problem may come back in future
pregnancies or if you use these medicines again. It may also come back from
sun exposure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have darkening of your face that does not go away.

## Prevention

The best way to lower your risk for melasma due to sun exposure is to protect
your skin from sun and ultraviolet (UV) light.

Things you can do to lower your exposure to sunlight include:

    * Wear clothing such as hats, long-sleeved shirts, long skirts, or pants.
    * Try to avoid being in the sun during midday, when ultraviolet light is most intense.
    * Use high-quality sunscreens, preferably with a sun protection factor (SPF) rating of at least 30. Pick a broad spectrum sunscreen that blocks both UVA and UVB light.
    * Apply sunscreen before going out into the sun, and reapply often -- at least every 2 hours while in the sun.
    * Use sunscreen year-round, including in the winter.
    * Avoid sun lamps, tanning beds, and tanning salons.

Other things to know about sun exposure:

    * Sun exposure is stronger in or near surfaces that reflect light, such as water, sand, concrete, and areas painted white.
    * Sunlight is more intense at the beginning of the summer.
    * Skin burns faster at higher altitudes.

## Alternative Names

Chloasma; Mask of pregnancy; Pregnancy mask

## References

Habif TP. Light-related diseases and disorders of pigmentation. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Disturbances of pigmentation. In: James WD,
Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical
Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy2_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy
_Read more_

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

