Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001583.htm    
                                Description: Incontinentia pigmenti (IP) is a rare skin condition passed down through families. It affects the skin, hair, eyes, teeth, and nervous system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Incontinentia pigmenti

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001583.htm

# Incontinentia pigmenti

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Incontinentia pigmenti (IP) is a rare skin condition passed down through
families. It affects the skin, hair, eyes, teeth, and nervous system.

## Causes

IP is caused by an X-linked dominant genetic defect that occurs on a gene
known as IKBKG.

Because the gene defect occurs on the X chromosome, the condition is most
often seen in females. When it occurs in males, it is usually lethal in the
fetus and results in miscarriage.

## Symptoms

With the skin symptoms, there are 4 stages. Infants with IP are born with
streaky, blistering areas. In stage 2, when the areas heal, they turn into
rough bumps. In stage 3, the bumps go away, but leave behind darkened skin,
called hyperpigmentation. After several years, the skin returns to normal. In
stage 4, there may be areas of lighter colored skin (hypopigmentation) that is
thinner.

IP is associated with central nervous system problems, including:

    * Delayed development
    * Loss of movement (paralysis)
    * Intellectual disability
    * Muscle spasms
    * Seizures

People with IP may also have abnormal teeth, hair loss, and vision problems.

## Exams and Tests

TheÂ health care providerÂ will perform a physical exam, look at the eyes, and
test muscle movement.

There may be unusual patterns and blisters on the skin, as well as bone
abnormalities. An eye exam may reveal cataracts, strabismus (crossed eyes), or
other problems.

To confirm the diagnosis, these tests may be done:

    * Blood tests
    * Skin biopsy
    * CT or MRI scan of the brain

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for IP. Treatment is aimed at the individual
symptoms. For example, glasses may be needed to improve vision. Medicine may
be prescribed to help control seizures or muscle spasms.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information about IP:

    * Incontinentia Pigmenti International Foundation -- www.ipif.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/incontinentia-pigmenti

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the severity of central nervous system
involvement and eye problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have a family history of IP and are considering having children
    * Your child has symptoms of this disorder 

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be helpful for those with a family history of IP who
are considering having children.

## Alternative Names

Bloch-Sulzberger syndrome; Bloch-Siemens syndrome

## Images

    * ![Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2860t.jpg)Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg
    * ![Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2861t.jpg)Incontinentia pigmenti on the leg

## References

Islam MP, Roach ES. Neurocutaneous syndromes. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 100.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Genodermatoses and
congenital anomalies. James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM,
eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 27.

Thiele EA, Korf BR. Phakomatoses and allied conditions. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal
S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

