Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003244.htm    
                                Description: Paleness is an abnormal loss of color from normal skin or mucous membranes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paleness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003244.htm

# Paleness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paleness is an abnormal loss of color from normal skin or mucous membranes.

## Considerations

Unless pale skin is accompanied by pale lips, tongue, palms of the hands,
inside of the mouth, and lining of the eyes, it is probably not a serious
condition, and does not require treatment.

General paleness affects the entire body. It is most easily seen on the face,
lining of the eyes, inner mouth, and nails. Local paleness usually affects a
single limb.

How easily paleness is diagnosed varies with skin color, and the thickness and
amount of blood vessels in the tissue under the skin. Sometimes it is only a
lightening of skin color. Paleness may be difficult to detect in a dark-
skinned person, and is detected only in the eye and mouth lining.

## Causes

Paleness may be the result of decreased blood supply to the skin. It can also
be due to decreased number of red blood cells (anemia). Paleness of the skin
is not the same as loss of pigment from the skin. Paleness is related to blood
flow in the skin rather than deposit of melanin in the skin.

Paleness can be caused by:

    * Anemia (blood loss, poor nutrition, or underlying disease)
    * Problems with the circulatory system
    * Shock
    * Fainting
    * Frostbite
    * Low blood sugar
    * Chronic (long-term) diseases including infection and cancer
    * Certain medicines 
    * Certain vitamin deficiencies

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or emergency number if a person suddenly
develops generalized paleness. Emergency action may be needed to maintain
proper blood circulation.

Also call your provider if paleness is accompanied by shortness of breath,
blood in the stool, or other unexplained symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask about your medical history and
symptoms, including:

    * Did the paleness develop suddenly?
    * Did it happen after reminders of a traumatic event?
    * Are you pale all over or only in one part of the body? If so, where?
    * What other symptoms do you have? For example, do you have pain, shortness of breath, blood in the stool, or are you vomiting blood?
    * Do you have a pale arm, hand, leg or foot, and cannot feel a pulse in the area? 

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Extremity arteriography
    * CBC (complete blood count)
    * Blood differential
    * Thyroid function tests
    * Colonoscopy to check for bleeding in the large intestine 

Treatment will depend on the cause of paleness.

## Alternative Names

Skin - pale or gray; Pallor

## References

Schwarzenberger K, Callen JP. Dermatologic manifestations in patients with
systemic disease. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Skin problems. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds.
_Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

