Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001463.htm    
                                Description: Pityriasis alba is a common skin disorder of patches of light-colored (hypopigmented) areas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pityriasis alba

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001463.htm

# Pityriasis alba

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pityriasis alba is a common skin disorder of patches of light-colored
(hypopigmented) areas.

## Causes

The cause is unknown but may be linked to atopic dermatitis (eczema). The
disorder is most common in children and teens. It is more noticeable in
children with dark skin.

## Symptoms

The problem areas on the skin (lesions) often start as slightly red and scaly
patches that are round or oval. They usually appear on the face, upper arms,
neck, and upper middle of the body. After these lesions go away, the patches
turn light-colored (hypopigmented).

The patches do not tan easily. Because of this, they may get red quickly in
the sun. As the skin surrounding the patches darkens normally, the patches may
become more visible.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can usually diagnose the condition by looking at the
skin. Tests, such as potassium hydroxide (KOH), may be done to rule out other
skin problems. In very rare cases, a skin biopsy is done.

## Treatment

The provider may recommend the following treatments:

    * Moisturizer
    * Mild steroid creams
    * Medicine, called immunomodulators, applied to the skin to reduce inflammation
    * Treatment with ultraviolet light to control the inflammation
    * Medicines by mouth or shots to control the dermatitis, if very severe
    * Laser treatment

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pityriasis alba usually goes away on its own with patches returning to normal
pigment over many months.

## Possible Complications

Patches may get sunburned when exposed to sunlight. Applying sunscreen and
using other sun protection can help prevent sunburn.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has patches of hypopigmented skin.

## References

Habif TP. Light-related diseases and disorders of pigmentation. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Patterson JW. Disorders of pigmentation. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

