Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007279.htm    
                                Description: In vitro fertilization (IVF) is the joining of a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

In vitro fertilization (IVF)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007279.htm

# In vitro fertilization (IVF)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

In vitro fertilization (IVF) is the joining of a woman's egg and a man's sperm
in a laboratory dish. In vitro means outside the body. Fertilization means the
sperm has attached to and entered the egg.

## Description

Normally, an egg and sperm are fertilized inside a woman's body. If the
fertilized egg attaches to the lining of the womb and continues to grow, a
baby is born about 9 months later. This process is called natural or
unassisted conception.

IVF is a form of assisted reproductive technology (ART). This means special
medical techniques are used to help a woman become pregnant. It is most often
tried when other, less expensive fertility techniques have failed.

There are five basic steps to IVF:

Step 1: Stimulation, also called super ovulation

    * Medicines, called fertility drugs, are given to the woman to boost egg production.
    * Normally, a woman produces one egg per month. Fertility drugs tell the ovaries to produce several eggs.
    * During this step, the woman will have regular transvaginal ultrasounds to examine the ovaries and blood tests to check hormone levels. 

Step 2: Egg retrieval

    * A minor surgery, called follicular aspiration, is done to remove the eggs from the woman's body.
    * The surgery is done as an outpatient procedure in the doctor's office most of the time. The woman will be given medicines so she does not feel pain during the procedure. Using ultrasound images as a guide, the health care provider inserts a thin needle through the vagina and into the ovary and sacs (follicles) containing the eggs. The needle is connected to a suction device, which pulls the eggs and fluid out of each follicle, one at a time.
    * The procedure is repeated for the other ovary. There may be some cramping after the procedure, but it will go away within a day.
    * In rare cases, a pelvic laparoscopy may be needed to remove the eggs. If a woman does not or cannot produce any eggs, donated eggs may be used. 

Step 3: Insemination and Fertilization

    * The man's sperm is placed together with the best quality eggs. The mixing of the sperm and egg is called insemination.
    * Eggs and sperm are then stored in an environmentally controlled chamber. The sperm most often enters (fertilizes) an egg a few hours after insemination.
    * If the doctor thinks the chance of fertilization is low, the sperm may be directly injected into the egg. This is called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
    * Many fertility programs routinely do ICSI on some of the eggs, even if things appear normal. 

![Intracytoplasmic sperm
injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200061t.gif)Watch this
video about:Intracytoplasmic sperm injection

Step 4: Embryo culture

    * When the fertilized egg divides, it becomes an embryo. Laboratory staff will regularly check the embryo to make sure it is growing properly. Within about 5 days, a normal embryo has several cells that are actively dividing.
    * Couples who have a high risk of passing a genetic (hereditary) disorder to a child may consider pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD). The procedure is done about 3Â to 4 days after fertilization. Laboratory scientists remove a single cell from each embryo and screen the material for specific genetic disorders.
    * According to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, PGD can help parents decide which embryos to implant. This decreases the chance of passing a disorder onto a child. The technique is controversial and not offered at all centers. 

Step 5: Embryo transfer

    * Embryos are placed into the woman's womb 3Â to 5 days after egg retrieval and fertilization.
    * The procedure is done in the doctor's office while the woman is awake. The doctor inserts a thin tube (catheter) containing the embryos into the woman's vagina, through the cervix, and up into the womb. If an embryo sticks to (implants) in the lining of the womb and grows, pregnancy results.
    * More than one embryo may be placed into the womb at the same time, which can lead to twins, triplets, or more. The exact number of embryos transferred is a complex issue that depends on many factors, especially the woman's age.
    * Unused embryos may be frozen and implanted or donated at a later date. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

IVF is done to help a woman become pregnant. It is used to treat many causes
of infertility, including:

    * Advanced age of the woman (advanced maternal age)
    * Damaged or blocked Fallopian tubes (can be caused by pelvic inflammatory disease or prior reproductive surgery)
    * Endometriosis
    * Male factor infertility, including decreased sperm count and blockage
    * Unexplained infertility 

## Risks

IVF involves large amounts of physical and emotional energy, time, and money.
Many couples dealing with infertility suffer stress and depression.

A woman taking fertility medicines may have bloating, abdominal pain, mood
swings, headaches, and other side effects. Many IVF medicines must be given by
injection, often several times a day. Repeated injections can cause bruising.

In rare cases, fertility drugs may cause ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome
(OHSS). This condition causes a buildup of fluid in the abdomen and chest.
Symptoms include abdominal pain, bloating, rapid weight gain (10 pounds or 4.5
kilograms within 3Â to 5 days), decreased urination despite drinking plenty of
fluids, nausea, vomiting, and shortness of breath. Mild cases can be treated
with bed rest. More severe cases require draining of the fluid with a needle
and possibly hospitalization.

Medical studies have shown so far that fertility drugs are not linked to
ovarian cancer.

Risks of egg retrieval include reactions to anesthesia, bleeding, infection,
and damage to structures surrounding the ovaries, including the bowel and
bladder.

There is a risk of multiple pregnancies when more than one embryo is placed
into the womb. Carrying more than one baby at a time increases the risk forÂ
premature birth and low birth weight. (However, even a single baby born after
IVF is at higher risk for prematurity and low birth weight.)

It is unclear whether IVF increases the risk for birth defects.

IVF is very costly. Some, but not all, states have laws that say health
insurance companies must offer some type of coverage. But, many insurance
plans do not cover infertility treatment. Fees for a single IVF cycle include
costs for medicines, surgery, anesthesia, ultrasounds, blood tests, processing
the eggs and sperm, embryo storage, and embryo transfer. The exact total of a
single IVF cycle varies, but may cost more than $12,000Â toÂ $17,000.

## After the Procedure

After embryo transfer, the woman may be told to rest for the remainder of the
day. Complete bed rest is not necessary, unless there is an increased risk for
OHSS. Most women return to normal activities the next day.

Women who undergo IVF must take daily shots or pills of the hormone
progesterone for 8 to 10 weeks after the embryo transfer. Progesterone is a
hormone produced naturally by the ovaries that prepares the lining of the
uterus (womb) so that an embryo can attach. Progesterone also helps an
implanted embryo grow and become established in the uterus. A woman may
continue to take progesterone for 8 to 12 weeks after becoming pregnant. Too
little progesterone during the early weeks of pregnancy may lead to
miscarriage.

About 12 to 14 days after the embryo transfer, the woman will return to the
clinic so that a pregnancy test can be done.

Call your provider right away if you had IVF and have:

    * A fever over 100.5Â°F (38Â°C)
    * Pelvic pain
    * Heavy bleeding from the vagina
    * Blood in the urine

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Statistics vary from one clinic to another and must be looked at carefully.

    * Pregnancy rates reflect the number of women who became pregnant after IVF. But not all pregnancies result in a live birth.
    * Live birth rates reflect the number of women who give birth to a living child.

According to the Society of Assisted Reproductive Technologies (SART), the
approximate chance of giving birth to a live baby after IVF is as follows:

    * 41%Â to 43% for women under age 35
    * 33%Â to 36% for women age 35Â to 37
    * 23%Â to 27% for women ages 38Â to 40
    * 13%Â to 18% for women age 41 and over

## Alternative Names

IVF; Assisted reproductive technology; ART; Test-tube baby procedure;
Infertility - in vitro

## References

Broekmans FJ, Fauser BCJM. Female infertility: evaluation and management. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Choi J, Lobo RA. In vitro fertilization. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 43.

Practice Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine; Practice
Committee of the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology. Guidance on the
limits to the number of embryos to transfer: a committee opinion. _Fertil
Steril_. 2017;107(4):901-903. PMID: 28292618
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28292618.

Rebar RW, Catherino WH. Reproductive endocrinology and infertility. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 236.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Assisted Reproductive
Technology](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AssistedReproductiveTechnology_thumb.jpg)Assisted
Reproductive Technology _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

