Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007294.htm    
                                Description: Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is a problem that is sometimes seen in women who take fertility medicines that stimulate egg production.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007294.htm

# Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is a problem that is sometimes seen
in women who take fertility medicines that stimulate egg production.

## Causes

Normally, a woman produces one egg per month. Some women who have trouble
getting pregnant may be given medicines to help them produce and release eggs.

If these medicines stimulate the ovaries too much, the ovaries can become very
swollen. Fluid can leak into the belly and chest area. This is called ovarian
hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). OHSS occurs only after the eggs are released
from the ovary (ovulation).

You may be more likely to get OHSS if:

    * You receive a shot of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG).
    * You get more than one dose of hCG after ovulation.
    * You become pregnant during this cycle. 

OHSS rarely occurs in women who only take fertility drugs by mouth.

OHSS affects 3% to 6% of women who go through in vitro fertilization.

Other risk factors for OHSS include:

    * Being younger than age 35
    * Having a very high estrogen level during fertility treatments
    * Having polycystic ovarian syndrome

## Symptoms

The symptoms of OHSS can range from mild to severe. Most women with the
condition have mild symptoms such as:

    * Abdominal bloating
    * Mild pain in the abdomen
    * Weight gain 

In rare cases, women can have more serious symptoms, including:

    * Rapid weight gain (more than 10 pounds or 4.5 kilograms in 3 to 5 days)
    * Severe pain or swelling in the belly area
    * Decreased urination
    * Shortness of breath
    * Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea 

## Exams and Tests

If you have a severe case of OHSS, your health care provider will need to
monitor your symptoms carefully. You may be admitted to the hospital.

Your weight and the size of your belly area (abdomen) will be measured. Tests
that may be done include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound or vaginal ultrasound
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count
    * Electrolytes panel
    * Liver function test
    * Tests to measure urine output 

## Treatment

Mild cases of OHSS usually don't need to be treated. The condition may
actually improve the chances of becoming pregnant.

The following steps can help you ease your discomfort:

    * Get plenty of rest with your legs raised. This helps your body release the fluid. However, light activity every now and then is better than complete bed rest, unless your doctor tells you otherwise.
    * Drink at least 10 to 12 glasses of fluid a day (especially drinks that contain electrolytes).
    * Avoid alcohol or caffeinated beverages (such as colas or coffee).
    * Avoid intense exercise and sexual intercourse. These activities can cause ovarian discomfort and may cause ovarian cysts to rupture or leak, or cause the ovaries to twist and cut off blood flow (ovarian torsion).
    * Take an over-the-counter pain reliever such as acetaminophen (Tylenol). 

You should weigh yourself each day to make sure you are not putting on too
much weight (5 or more pounds or about 2 kilograms or more a day).

In the rare case that you develop severe OHSS, you will probably need to go to
a hospital. The providers there will give you fluids through a vein
(intravenous fluids). They will also remove fluids that have collected in your
body, and monitor your condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most mild cases of OHSS will go away on their own after menstruation starts.
If you have a more severe case, it can take several days for symptoms to
improve.

If you become pregnant during OHSS, the symptoms may get worse and can take
weeks to go away.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, OHSS can lead to life-threatening complications. These can
include:

    * Blood clots
    * Kidney failure
    * Severe electrolyte imbalance
    * Severe fluid buildup in the abdomen or chest 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you experience any of the following
symptoms:

    * Less urine output
    * Dizziness
    * Excessive weight gain, more than 5 pounds (2 kg) a day
    * Very bad nausea (you cannot keep food or liquids down)
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Shortness of breath 

## Prevention

If you are getting injections of fertility medicines, you will need to have
regular blood tests and pelvic ultrasounds to make sure that your ovaries
aren't over-responding.

## Alternative Names

OHSS

## References

Fauser BCJM. Medical approaches to ovarian stimulation for infertility. In:
Strauss JF, Barbieri RL, eds. _Yen & Jaffe's Reproductive Endocrinology_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 30.

Lobo RA. Infertility: etiology, diagnostic evaluation, management, prognosis.
In:Â Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

Rebar RW, Catherino WH. Reproductive endocrinology and infertility. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 236.

## Review Date 8/26/2017

Updated by: Peter J Chen, MD, FACOG, Associate Professor of OBGYN at Cooper
Medical School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Assisted Reproductive
Technology](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AssistedReproductiveTechnology_thumb.jpg)Assisted
Reproductive Technology _Read more_

![Ovarian
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianDisorders2_thumb.jpg)Ovarian
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

