Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000907.htm    
                                Description: A threatened miscarriage is a condition that indicates a miscarriage or early pregnancy loss. It might take place before the 20th week of pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Miscarriage - threatened

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000907.htm

# Miscarriage - threatened

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A threatened miscarriage is a condition that indicates a miscarriage or early
pregnancy loss. It might take place before the 20th week of pregnancy.

## Causes

Some pregnant women have some vaginal bleeding, with or without abdominal
cramps, during the first 3 months of pregnancy. When the symptoms indicate a
miscarriage is possible, the condition is called a "threatened abortion."
(This refers to a naturally occurring event, not due to a medical abortions or
surgical abortion.)

Miscarriage is common. Small falls, injuries or stress during the first
trimester of pregnancy can cause threatened miscarriage. It occurs in almost
one half of all pregnancies. The chance of miscarriage is higher in older
women. About one half of women who have bleeding in the first trimester will
have a miscarriage.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a threatened miscarriage include:

    * Vaginal bleeding during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy (last menstrual period was less than 20 weeks ago). Vaginal bleeding occurs in almost all threatened miscarriages.
    * Abdominal cramps may also occur. If abdominal cramps occur in the absence of significant bleeding, consult your health care provider to check for other problems besides threatened miscarriage.

Note: During a miscarriage, low back pain or abdominal pain (dull to sharp,
constant to intermittent) can occur. Tissue or clot-like material may pass
from the vagina.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider may perform an abdominal or vaginal ultrasound to check the
baby's development and heartbeat, and the amount of bleeding. A pelvic exam
may also be done to check your cervix.

Blood tests done may include:

    * Beta HCG (quantitative) test (pregnancy test) over a period of days or weeks to confirm whether the pregnancy is continuing
    * Complete blood count (CBC) to determine the presence of anemia
    * Progesterone level
    * White blood count (WBC) with differential to rule out infection

## Treatment

Apart from controlling the blood loss, you may not need any particular
treatment. If you are Rh Negative, then you may be given immune globulin. You
may be told to avoid or restrict some activities. Not having sexual
intercourse is usually recommended until the warning signs have disappeared.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most women with a threatened miscarriage go on to have a normal pregnancy.

Women who have had two or more miscarriages in a row are more likely than
other women to miscarry again.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Anemia from moderate to heavy blood loss, which occasionally requires a blood transfusion.
    * Infection.
    * Miscarriage.
    * The physician will take care to be sure that the symptoms that occur are not due to an ectopic pregnancy, a potentially life-threatening complication.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you know you are (or are likely to be) pregnant and you have any symptoms
of threatened miscarriage, contact your prenatal provider right away.

## Prevention

Most miscarriages cannot be prevented. The most common cause of a miscarriage
is a random genetic abnormality in the developing pregnancy. If you have two
or more repeated miscarriages, you should consult a specialist to find out if
you have a treatable condition that is causing the miscarriages. Women who get
prenatal care have better pregnancy outcomes for themselves and their babies.Â

A healthy pregnancy is more likely when you avoid things that are harmful to
your pregnancy, such as:

    * Alcohol
    * Infectious diseases
    * High caffeine intake
    * Recreational drugs
    * X-rays

Taking a prenatal vitamin or folic acid supplement before becoming pregnant
and throughout your pregnancy can lower your chance of miscarriage and improve
the chance of delivering a healthy baby.

It is better to treat health problems before you get pregnant than to wait
until you are already pregnant. Miscarriages caused by diseases that affect
your whole body, such as high blood pressure, are rare. But you can prevent
these miscarriages by detecting and treating the disease before becoming
pregnant.

Other factors that can increase your risk for miscarriage include:

    * Obesity
    * Thyroid problems
    * Uncontrolled diabetes

## Alternative Names

Threatened miscarriage; Threatened spontaneous abortion; Abortion -
threatened; Threatened abortion; Early pregnancy loss; Spontaneous abortionÂ

## Images

    * ![Early pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8610t.jpg)Early pregnancy
    * ![Threatened miscarriage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17197t.jpg)Threatened miscarriage

## References

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Hobel CJ, Willaims J. Antepartum care: preconception and prenatal care,
genetic evaluation and teratology, and antenatal fetal assessment. In: Hacker
NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Keyhan S, Muasher L, Muasher SJ. Spontaneous abortion and recurrent pregnancy
loss: etiology, diagnosis, treatment. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 16.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Miscarriage](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Miscarriage_thumb.jpg)Miscarriage
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

