Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000909.htm    
                                Description: Hydatidiform mole (HM) is a rare mass or growth that forms inside the womb (uterus) at the beginning of a pregnancy. It is a type of gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydatidiform mole

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000909.htm

# Hydatidiform mole

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydatidiform mole (HM) is a rare mass or growth that forms inside the womb
(uterus) at the beginning of a pregnancy. It is a type of gestational
trophoblastic disease (GTD).

## Causes

HM, or molar pregnancy, results from abnormal fertilization of the oocyte
(egg). It results in an abnormal fetus. The placenta grows normally with
little or no growth of the fetal tissue. The placental tissue forms a mass in
the uterus. On ultrasound, this mass often has a grape-like appearance, as it
contains many small cysts.

Chance of mole formation is higher in older women. A history of mole in
earlier years is also a risk factor.

Molar pregnancy can be of two types:

    * Partial molar pregnancy: There is an abnormal placenta and some fetal development.
    * Complete molar pregnancy: There is an abnormal placenta and no fetus.

There is no way to prevent formation of these masses.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a molar pregnancy may include:

    * Abnormal growth of the uterus, either bigger or smaller than usual
    * Severe nausea and vomiting
    * Vaginal bleeding during the first 3 months of pregnancy
    * Symptoms of hyperthyroidism, including heat intolerance,Â loose stools, rapid heart rate, restlessnessÂ or nervousness, warm and moist skin, trembling hands, or unexplained weight loss
    * Symptoms similar to preeclampsia that occur in the first trimester or early second trimester, including high blood pressure and swelling in the feet, ankles, and legs (this is almost always a sign of a hydatidiform mole, because preeclampsia is extremely rare this early in a normal pregnancy)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a pelvic exam, which may show signs
similar to a normal pregnancy. However, the size of the womb may be abnormal
and there may be no heart sounds from the baby. Also, there may be some
vaginal bleeding.

A pregnancy ultrasound will show a snowstorm appearance with an abnormal
placenta, with or without some development of a baby.

Tests done may include:

    * hCG (quantitative levels) blood test
    * Abdominal or vaginal ultrasound of the pelvis  

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT or MRI of the abdomen (imaging tests)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Blood clotting tests
    * Kidney and liver function tests

## Treatment

If your provider suspects a molar pregnancy, removal of the abnormal tissue
with a dilation and curettage (D&C) will most likely be suggested. D&C may
also be done using suction. This is called suction aspiration (The method uses
a suction cup to remove contents from the uterus).Â

Sometimes a partial molar pregnancy can continue. A woman may choose to
continue her pregnancy in the hope of having a successful birth and delivery.
However, these are very high-risk pregnancies. Risks may include bleeding,
problems with blood pressure, and premature delivery (having the baby before
it is fully developed). In rare cases, the fetus is genetically normal. Women
need to completely discuss the risks with their provider before continuing the
pregnancy.

A hysterectomy (surgery to remove the uterus) may be an option for older women
who DO NOT wish to become pregnant in the future.

After treatment, your hCG level will be followed. It is important to avoid
another pregnancy and to use a reliable contraceptive for 6 to 12 months after
treatment for a molar pregnancy. This time allows for accurate testing to be
sure that the abnormal tissue does not grow back. Women who get pregnant too
soon after a molar pregnancy are at high risk of having another molar
pregnancy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most HMs are noncancerous (benign). Treatment is usually successful. Close
follow-up by your provider is important to ensure that signs of the molar
pregnancy are gone and pregnancy hormone levels return to normal.

About 15% of cases of HM can become invasive. These moles can grow deep into
the uterine wall and cause bleeding or other complications. This type of mole
most often responds well to medicines.

In very few cases of complete HM, moles develop into a choriocarcinoma. This
is a fast-growing cancer. It is usually successfully treated with
chemotherapy, but can be life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications of molar pregnancy may include:

    * ChangeÂ to invasive molar disease or choriocarcinoma
    * Preeclampsia
    * Thyroid problems
    * Molar pregnancy that continues or comes back 

Complications from surgery to remove a molar pregnancy may include:

    * Excessive bleeding, possibly requiring a blood transfusion
    * Side effects of anesthesia 

## Alternative Names

Hydatid mole; Molar pregnancy; Hyperemesis - molar

## Images

    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Bouchard-Fortier G, Covens A. Gestational trophoblastic disease: hydatidiform
mole, nonmetastatic and metastatic gestational trophoblastic tumor: diagnosis
and management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

Goldstein DP, Berkowitz RS. Gestational trophoblastic disease. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 90.

Salani R, Copeland LJ. Malignant diseases and pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 50.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Miscarriage](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Miscarriage_thumb.jpg)Miscarriage
_Read more_

![Tumors and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TumorsandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Tumors
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

