Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002914.htm    
                                Description: D and C (dilation and curettage) is a procedure to scrape and collect the tissue (endometrium) from inside the uterus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

D and C

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002914.htm

# D and C

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

D and C (dilation and curettage) is a procedure to scrape and collect the
tissue (endometrium) from inside the uterus.

    * Dilation (D) is a widening of the cervix to allow instruments into the uterus.
    * Curettage (C) is the scraping of the walls of the uterus.

## Description

D and C, also called uterine scraping, may be performed in the hospital or in
a clinic while you are under general or local anesthesia.

The health care provider will insert an instrument called a speculum into the
vagina. This holds open the vaginal canal. Numbing medicine may be applied to
the opening to the uterus (cervix).

The cervical canal is widened, and a curette (a metal loop on the end of a
long, thin handle) is passed through the opening into the uterus cavity. The
provider gently scrapes the inner layer of tissue, called the endometrium. The
tissue is collected for examination.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure may be done to:

    * Diagnose or rule out conditions such as uterine cancer
    * Remove tissue after a miscarriage
    * Treat heavy menstrual bleeding, irregular periods, or bleeding between periods
    * Perform a therapeutic or elective abortion 

Your provider may also recommend a D and C if you have:

    * Abnormal bleeding while you are on hormone replacement therapy
    * An embedded intrauterine device (IUD)
    * Bleeding after menopause
    * Endometrial polyps (small lumps of tissue on the endometrium)
    * Thickening of the uterus 

This list may not include all possible reasons for a D and C.

## Risks

Risks related to D and C include:

    * Puncture of the uterus
    * Scarring of the uterine lining (Asherman syndrome, may lead to infertility later)
    * Tear of the cervix

Risks due to anesthesia include:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Problems breathing

Risks of any surgery include:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection

## After the Procedure

The D and C procedure has few risks. It can provide relief from bleeding and
can help diagnose cancer and other diseases.

You may return to your normal activities as soon as you feel better, possibly
even the same day.

You may have vaginal bleeding, pelvic cramps, and back pain for a few days
after the procedure. You can usually manage pain well with medicines. Avoid
using tampons and having sexual intercourse for 1 to 2 weeks after the
procedure.

## Alternative Names

Dilatation and curettage; Uterus scraping; Vaginal bleeding - dilation;
Uterine bleeding - dilation; Menopause - dilation

## Images

    * ![D and C](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17047t.jpg)D and C
    * ![D and C - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7069t.jpg)D and C - series

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Ryntz T, Lobo RA. Abnormal uterine bleeding: etiology and management of acute
and chronic excessive bleeding. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea
FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Abortion](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Abortion_thumb.jpg)Abortion _Read
more_

![Ectopic
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EctopicPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Ectopic
Pregnancy _Read more_

![Female
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility_thumb.jpg)Female
Infertility _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

