Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001488.htm    
                                Description: A miscarriage is the spontaneous loss of a fetus before the 20th week of pregnancy (pregnancy losses after the 20th week are called stillbirths). Miscarriage is a naturally occurring event, unlike medical    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Miscarriage

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001488.htm

# Miscarriage

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A miscarriage is the spontaneous loss of a fetus before the 20th week of
pregnancy (pregnancy losses after the 20th week are called stillbirths).
Miscarriage is a naturally occurring event, unlike medical or surgical
abortions.

A miscarriage may also be called a "spontaneous abortion." Other terms for the
early loss of pregnancy include:

    * Complete abortion: All of the products (tissue) of conception leave the body.
    * Incomplete abortion: Only some of the products of conception leave the body.
    * Inevitable abortion: Symptoms cannot be stopped and a miscarriage will happen.
    * Infected (septic) abortion: The lining of the womb (uterus) and any remaining products of conception become infected.
    * Missed abortion: The pregnancy is lost and the products of conception do not leave the body.

Your health care provider may also use the term "threatened miscarriage." The
symptoms of this condition are abdominal cramps with or without vaginal
bleeding. They are a sign that a miscarriage may occur.

## Causes

Most miscarriages are caused by chromosome problems that make it impossible
for the baby to develop. In rare cases, these problems are related to the
mother's or father's genes.

Other possible causes of miscarriage may include:

    * Drug and alcohol abuse
    * Exposure to environmental toxins
    * Hormone problems
    * Infection
    * Overweight
    * Physical problems with the mother's reproductive organs
    * Problem with the body's immune response
    * Serious body-wide (systemic) diseases in the mother (such as uncontrolled diabetes)
    * Smoking 

Around half of all fertilized eggs die and are lost (aborted) spontaneously,
usually before the woman knows she is pregnant. Among women who know they are
pregnant, about 10% to 25% will have a miscarriage. Most miscarriages occur
during the first 7 weeks of pregnancy. The rate of miscarriage drops after the
baby's heartbeat is detected.

The risk of miscarriage is higher:

    * In women who are older -- The risk increases after 30 years of age and becomes even greater between 35 and 40 years, and is highest after age 40.
    * In women who have already had several miscarriages. 

## Symptoms

Possible symptoms of miscarriage may include:

    * Low back pain or abdominal pain that is dull, sharp, or cramping
    * Tissue or clot-like material that passes from the vagina
    * Vaginal bleeding, with or without abdominal cramps

## Exams and Tests

During a pelvic exam, your provider may see that your cervix has opened
(dilated) or thinned out (effacement).

Abdominal or vaginal ultrasound may be done to check the baby's development
and heartbeat, and the amount of your bleeding.

The following blood tests may be performed:

    * Blood type (if you have an Rh-negative blood type, you would require a treatment with Rh-immune globulin).
    * Complete blood count (CBC) to determine how much blood has been lost.
    * HCG (qualitative) to confirm pregnancy.
    * HCG (quantitative) done every several days or weeks.
    * White blood count (WBC) and differential to rule out infection.

## Treatment

When a miscarriage occurs, the tissue passed from the vagina should be
examined. This is done to determine if it was a normal placenta or a
hydatidiform mole (a rare growth that forms inside the womb early in
pregnancy). It is also important to find out whether any pregnancy tissue
remains in the uterus. In rare cases an ectopic pregnancy can look like a
miscarriage. If you have passed tissue, ask your provider if the tissue should
be sent for genetic testing. This can be helpful to determine if a treatable
cause of miscarriage is present.

If the pregnancy tissue does not naturally leave the body, you may be closely
watched for up to 2 weeks. Surgery (suction curettage, D and C) or medicine
may be needed to remove the remaining contents from your womb.

After treatment, women usually resume their normal menstrual cycle within 4 to
6 weeks. Any further vaginal bleeding should be carefully monitored. It is
often possible to become pregnant immediately. It is suggested that you wait
one normal menstrual cycle before trying to become pregnant again.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, complications of miscarriage are seen.

An infected abortion may occur if any tissue from the placenta or fetus
remains in the uterus after the miscarriage. Symptoms of an infection include
fever, vaginal bleeding that does not stop, cramping, and a foul-smelling
vaginal discharge. Infections can be serious and need immediate medical
attention.

Women who lose a baby after 20 weeks of pregnancy receive different medical
care. This is called premature delivery or fetal demise. This needs immediate
medical attention.

After a miscarriage, women and their partners may feel sad. This is normal. If
your feelings of sadness do not go away or get worse, seek advice from family
and friends as well as your provider. However, for most couples, a history of
a miscarriage doesn't reduce the chances of having a healthy baby in the
future.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Have vaginal bleeding with or without cramping during pregnancy.
    * Are pregnant and notice tissue or clot-like material that passes through your vagina. Collect the material and bring it to your provider for examination.

## Prevention

Early, complete prenatal care is the best prevention for complications of
pregnancy, such as miscarriage.

Miscarriages that are caused by systemic diseases can be prevented by
detecting and treating the disease before pregnancy occurs.

Miscarriages are also less likely if you avoid things that are harmful to your
pregnancy. These include x-rays, recreational drugs, alcohol, high caffeine
intake, and infectious diseases.

When a mother's body has difficulty keeping a pregnancy, signs such as slight
vaginal bleeding may occur. This means there is a risk of miscarriage. But it
does not mean one will definitely occur. A pregnant woman who develops any
signs or symptoms ofÂ threatened miscarriage should contact her prenatal
provider instantly.

Taking a prenatal vitamin or folic acid supplement before you become pregnant
can greatly lower the chances of miscarriage and certain birth defects.

## Alternative Names

Abortion - spontaneous; Spontaneous abortion; Abortion - missed; Abortion -
incomplete; Abortion - complete; Abortion - inevitable; Abortion - infected;
Missed abortion; Incomplete abortion; Complete abortion; Inevitable abortion;
Infected abortion

## Images

    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Catalano PM. Obesity in pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al,
eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

Hobel CJ, Williams J. Antepartum care. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ,
eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Keyhan S, Muasher L, Muasher S. Spontaneous abortion and recurrent pregnancy
loss; etiology, diagnosis, treatment . In:Â Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 16.

Moore KL, Persaud TVN, Torchia MG. Discussion of clinically oriented problems.
In: Moore KL, Persaud TVN, Torchia MG, eds. _Developing Human, The_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:503-512.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. Principles of clinical cytogenetics and
genome analysis. In: Nussabaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson &
Thompson Genetics in Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
5.

Reddy UM, Silver RM. Stillbirth. In: Resnick R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene
MF, et al, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Miscarriage](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Miscarriage_thumb.jpg)Miscarriage
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

