Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003510.htm    
                                Description: A quantitative human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) test measures the specific level of HCG in the blood. HCG is a hormone produced in the body during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HCG blood test - quantitative

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003510.htm

# HCG blood test - quantitative

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A quantitative human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) test measures the specific
level of HCG in the blood. HCG is a hormone produced in the body during
pregnancy.

Other HCG tests include:

    * HCG urine test
    * HCG blood test -- qualitative

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This is most often taken from a vein. The procedure
is called a venipuncture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

HCG appears in the blood and urine of pregnant women as early as 10 days after
conception. Quantitative HCG measurement helps determine the exact age of the
fetus. It can also assist in the diagnosis of abnormal pregnancies, such as
ectopic pregnancies, molar pregnancies, and possible miscarriages. It is also
used as part of a screening test for Down syndrome.

This test is also done to diagnose abnormal conditions not related to
pregnancy that can raise HCG level.

## Normal Results

Results are given in milli-international units per milliliter (mUI/mL).

Normal levels are found in:

    * Non-pregnant women: less than 5 mIU/mL
    * Healthy men: less than 2 mIU/mL

In pregnancy, HCG level rises rapidly during the first trimester and then
declines slightly. The expected HCG ranges in pregnant women are based on the
length of the pregnancy.

    * 3 weeks: 5 - 72 mIU/mL
    * 4 weeks: 10 -708 mIU/mL
    * 5 weeks: 217 - 8,245 mIU/mL
    * 6 weeks: 152 - 32,177 mIU/mL
    * 7 weeks: 4,059 - 153,767 mIU/mL
    * 8 weeks: 31,366 - 149,094 mIU/mL
    * 9 weeks: 59,109 - 135,901 mIU/mL
    * 10 weeks: 44,186 - 170,409 mIU/mL
    * 12 weeks: 27,107 - 201,165 mIU/mL
    * 14 weeks: 24,302 - 93,646 mIU/mL
    * 15 weeks: 12,540 - 69,747 mIU/mL
    * 16 weeks: 8,904 - 55,332 mIU/mL
    * 17 weeks: 8,240 - 51,793 mIU/mL
    * 18 weeks: 9,649 - 55,271 mIU/mL

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher than normal level may indicate:

    * More than one fetus, for example, twins or triplets
    * Choriocarcinoma of the uterus
    * Hydatidiform mole of the uterus
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Testicular cancer (in men)

During pregnancy, lower than normal levels based on the gestational age may
indicate:

    * Fetal death
    * Incomplete miscarriage
    * Threatened spontaneous abortion (miscarriage)
    * Ectopic pregnancy

## Risks

Risks of having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Blood accumulating under the skin (hematoma)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Serial beta HCG; Repeat quantitative beta HCG; Human chorionic gonadotropin
blood test - quantitative; Beta-HCG blood test - quantitative; Pregnancy test
- blood - quantitative

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Jain S, Pincus MR, Bluth MH, McPherson RA, Bowne WB, Lee P. Diagnosis and
management of cancer using serological and other body fluid markers. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

Jeelani R, Bluth MH. Reproductive function and pregnancy. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

University of Iowa Diagnostic Laboratories. Test directory: HCG - pregnancy,
serum, quantitative.
www.healthcare.uiowa.edu/path_handbook/rhandbook/test1549.html. Updated
December 14, 2017. Accessed February 18, 2019.

Yarbrough ML, Stout M, Gronowski AM. Pregnancy and its disorders. In: Rifai N,
ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed.
St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 69.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ectopic
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EctopicPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Ectopic
Pregnancy _Read more_

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Miscarriage](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Miscarriage_thumb.jpg)Miscarriage
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

