Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001496.htm    
                                Description: Choriocarcinoma is a fast-growing cancer that occurs in a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choriocarcinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001496.htm

# Choriocarcinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Choriocarcinoma is a fast-growing cancer that occurs in a woman's uterus
(womb). The abnormal cells start in the tissue that would normally become the
placenta. This is the organ that develops during pregnancy to feed the fetus.

Choriocarcinoma is a type of gestational trophoblastic disease.

## Causes

Choriocarcinoma is a rare cancer that occursÂ as an abnormal pregnancy. A baby
may or may not develop in this type of pregnancy.

The cancer may also occur after a normal pregnancy. But it most often occurs
with a complete hydatidiform mole. This is a growth that forms inside the womb
at the beginning of a pregnancy. The abnormal tissue from the mole can
continue to grow even after attempted removal, and can become cancerous. About
one half of all women with a choriocarcinoma had a hydatidiform mole, or molar
pregnancy.

Choriocarcinomas may also occur after an early pregnancy that does notÂ
continue (miscarriage). They may also occur after an ectopic pregnancy or
genital tumor.

## Symptoms

A possible symptom is abnormal or irregular vaginal bleeding in a woman who
recently had a hydatidiform mole or pregnancy.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Irregular vaginal bleeding
    * Pain, which may be associated with the bleeding, or due to enlargement of the ovaries that often occurs with a choriocarcinoma

## Exams and Tests

A pregnancy test will be positive, even if you are not pregnant. The pregnancy
hormone (HCG) level will be high.

A pelvic exam may find an enlarged uterus and ovaries.

Blood tests that may be done include:

    * Quantitative serum HCG
    * Complete blood count
    * Kidney function tests
    * Liver function tests

Imaging tests that may be done include:

    * CT scan
    * MRI 
    * Pelvic ultrasound
    * Chest x-ray

You should be carefully monitored after a hydatidiform mole or at the end of a
pregnancy. Early diagnosis of choriocarcinoma can improve the outcome.

## Treatment

After you are diagnosed, a careful history andÂ exam will beÂ done to make
sure the cancer has not spread to other organs. Chemotherapy is the main type
of treatment.

HysterectomyÂ to remove the womb and radiation treatment are rarely needed.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most women whose cancer has not spread can be cured and will still be able to
have children. A choriocarcinoma may come back within a few months to 3 years
after treatment.

The condition is harder to cure if the cancer has spread andÂ one or more of
the following happens:

    * Disease spreads to the liver or brain
    * Pregnancy hormone (HCG) level is higher than 40,000 mIU/mL when treatment begins
    * Cancer returns after having chemotherapy
    * Symptoms or pregnancy occurred for more than 4 months before treatment began
    * Choriocarcinoma occurred after a pregnancy that resulted in the birth of a child 

Many women (about 70%) who have a poor outlook at first go into remission (a
disease-free state).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you develop symptoms
within 1 year after a hydatidiform mole or pregnancy.

## Alternative Names

Chorioblastoma; Trophoblastic tumor; Chorioepithelioma; Gestational
trophoblastic neoplasia; Cancer - choriocarcinoma

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Gestational trophoblastic disease treatment
(PDQ) â health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/gestationaltrophoblastic/HealthProfessional.
Updated February 25, 2015. Accessed April 30, 2018.

Salani R, Copeland LJ. Malignant diseases and pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 50.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Miscarriage](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Miscarriage_thumb.jpg)Miscarriage
_Read more_

![Tumors and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TumorsandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Tumors
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![Uterine
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UterineCancer2_thumb.jpg)Uterine Cancer
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

