Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003105.htm    
                                Description: Facial swelling is the buildup of fluid in the tissues of the face. Swelling may also affect the neck and upper arms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Facial swelling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003105.htm

# Facial swelling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Facial swelling is the buildup of fluid in the tissues of the face. Swelling
may also affect the neck and upper arms.

## Considerations

If the facial swelling is mild, it may be hard to detect. Let the health care
provider know the following:

    * Pain, and where it hurts
    * How long the swelling has lasted
    * What makes it better or worse
    * If you have other symptoms 

## Causes

Causes of facial swelling may include:

    * Allergic reaction (allergic rhinitis, hay fever, or a bee sting)
    * Angioedema
    * Blood transfusion reaction
    * Cellulitis
    * Conjunctivitis (inflammation of the eye)
    * Drug reactions, including those due to aspirin, penicillin, sulfa, glucocorticoids, and others
    * Head, nose, or jaw surgery
    * Injury or trauma to the face (such as a burn)
    * Malnutrition (when severe)
    * Obesity
    * Salivary gland disorders 
    * Sinusitis
    * Stye with swelling around the infected eye
    * Tooth abscess

## Home Care

Apply cold compresses to reduce swelling from an injury. Raise the head of the
bed (or use extra pillows) to help reduce facial swelling.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Sudden, painful, or severe facial swelling
    * Facial swelling that lasts a while, particularly if it is getting worse over time
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Fever, tenderness, or redness, which suggests infection 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Emergency treatment is needed if facial swelling is caused by burns, or if you
have breathing problems.

The provider will ask about your medical and personal history. This helps
determine treatment or if any medical tests are needed. Questions may include:

    * How long has the facial swelling lasted?
    * When did it begin?
    * What makes it worse?
    * What makes it better?
    * Have you come into contact with something you might be allergic to?
    * What medicines are you taking?
    * Did you recently injure your face?
    * Did you have a medical test or surgery recently?
    * What other symptoms do you have? For example: facial pain, sneezing, difficulty breathing, hives or rash, eye redness, fever.

## Alternative Names

Puffy face; Swelling of the face; Moon face; Facial edema

## Images

    * ![Edema - central on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2408t.jpg)Edema - central on the face

## References

Guluma K, Lee JE. Ophthalmology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 61.

Habif TP. Urticaria, angioedema and pruritus. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

Pedigo RA, Amsterdam JT. Oral medicine. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 60.

Pfaff JA, Moore GP. Otolaryngology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 62.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![Facial Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FacialInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Facial
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

