Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003103.htm    
                                Description: Swelling is the enlargement of organs, skin, or other body parts. It is caused by a buildup of fluid in the tissues. The extra fluid can lead to a rapid increase in weight over a short period of time (days    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swelling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003103.htm

# Swelling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Swelling is the enlargement of organs, skin, or other body parts. It is caused
by a buildup of fluid in the tissues. The extra fluid can lead to a rapid
increase in weight over a short period of time (days to weeks).

Swelling can occur all over the body (generalized) or only in one part of the
body (localized).

## Considerations

Slight swelling (edema) of the lower legs is common in warm summer months,
especially if a person has been standing or walking a lot.

General swelling, or massive edema (also called anasarca), is a common sign in
people who are very sick. Although slight edema may be hard to detect, a large
amount of swelling is very obvious.

Edema is described as pitting or non-pitting.

    * Pitting edema leaves a dent in the skin after you press the area with a finger for about 5 seconds. The dent will slowly fill back in.
    * Non-pitting edema does not leave this type of dent when pressing on the swollen area.

## Causes

Swelling can be caused by any of the following:

    * Acute glomerulonephritis (a kidney disease)
    * Burns, including sunburn
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Heart failure
    * Liver failure from cirrhosis
    * Nephrotic syndrome (a kidney disease)
    * Poor nutrition
    * Pregnancy
    * Thyroid disease
    * Too little albumin in the blood (hypoalbuminemia)
    * Too much salt or sodium
    * Use of certain drugs, such as corticosteroids or drugs used to treat heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes 

## Home Care

Follow your health care provider's treatment recommendations. If you have
long-term swelling, ask your provider about options to prevent skin breakdown,
such as:

    * Flotation ring
    * Lamb's wool pad
    * Pressure-reducing mattress 

Continue with your everyday activities. When lying down, keep your arms and
legs above your heart level, if possible, so the fluid can drain. DO NOT do
this if you get shortness of breath. See your provider instead.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you notice any unexplained swelling, contact your provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Except in emergency situations (heart failure or pulmonary edema), your
provider will take your medical history and will perform a physical
examination. You may be asked about the symptoms of your swelling. Questions
may include when the swelling started, whether it is all over your body or
just in one area, what you have tried at home to help the swelling.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Albumin blood test
    * Blood electrolyte levels
    * Echocardiography
    * ECG
    * Kidney function tests
    * Liver function tests
    * Urinalysis
    * X-rays

Treatment may include avoiding salt or taking water pills (diuretics). Your
fluid intake and output should be monitored, and you should be weighed daily.

Avoid alcohol if liver disease (cirrhosis or hepatitis) is causing the
problem. Support hose may be recommended.

## Alternative Names

Edema; Anasarca

## Images

    * ![Pitting edema on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2916t.jpg)Pitting edema on the leg

## References

Raftery AT, Lim E, ÃstÃ¶r AJK. Abdominal swellings. In: Raftery AT, Lim E,
ÃstÃ¶r AJK, eds. _Churchill's Pocketbook of Differential Diagnosis_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:10-25.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Swelling of the legs. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds.
_Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 31.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

