Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007308.htm    
                                Description: Hydrops fetalis is a serious condition. It occurs when abnormal amounts of fluid build up in two or more body areas of a fetus or newborn. It is a symptom of underlying problems.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydrops fetalis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007308.htm

# Hydrops fetalis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydrops fetalis is a serious condition. It occurs when abnormal amounts of
fluid build up in two or more body areas of a fetus or newborn. It is a
symptom of underlying problems.

## Causes

There are two types of hydrops fetalis, immune and nonimmune. The type depends
on the cause of the abnormal fluid.

    * **Immune hydrops fetalis** is most often a complication of a severe form of Rh incompatibility, which can be prevented. This is a condition in which mother who has Rh negative blood type makes antibodies to her baby's Rh positive blood cells, and the antibodies cross the placenta. Rh incompatibility causes a large number of red blood cells in the fetus to be destroyed (This is also known as hemolytic disease of the newborn.) This leads to problems including total body swelling. Severe swelling can interfere with how the body organs work.
    *  **Nonimmune hydrops fetalis** is more common. It accounts for up to 90% of cases of hydrops. The condition occurs when a disease or medical condition affects the body's ability to manage fluid. There are three main causes for this type, heart or lung problems, severe anemia (such as from thalassemia or infections), and genetic or developmental problems, including Turner syndrome. 

The number of babies who develop immune hydrops fetalis has dropped due to a
medicine called RhoGAM. This drug is given as an injection to pregnant mothers
who are at risk for Rh incompatibility. The drug prevents them from making
antibodies against their babies' red blood cells. (There are other, much
rarer, blood group incompatibilities that can also cause immune hydrops
fetalis, but RhoGAM does not help with these.)

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the severity of the condition. Mild forms may cause:

    * Liver swelling
    * Change in skin color (pallor) 

More severe forms may cause:

    * Breathing problems
    * Bruising or purplish bruise-like spots on the skin
    * Heart failure
    * Severe anemia
    * Severe jaundice
    * Total body swelling 

## Exams and Tests

An ultrasound done during pregnancy may show:

    * High levels of amniotic fluid
    * Abnormally large placenta
    * Fluid causing swelling in and around the unborn baby's organs, including the liver, spleen, heart, or lung area

An amniocentesis and frequent ultrasounds will be done to determine the
severity of the condition.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause. During pregnancy, treatment may include:

    * Medicine to cause early labor and delivery of the baby
    * Early cesarean delivery if condition gets worse
    * Giving blood to the baby while still in the womb (intrauterine fetal blood transfusion) 

Treatment for a newborn may include:

    * For immune hydrops, direct transfusion of red blood cells that match the infant's blood type. An exchange transfusion to rid the baby's body of the substances that are destroying the red blood cells is also done.
    * Removing extra fluid from around the lungs and abdominal organs with a needle.
    * Medicines to control heart failure and help the kidneys remove extra fluids.
    * Methods to help the baby breathe, such as a breathing machine (ventilator). 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hydrops fetalis often results in death of the infant shortly before or after
delivery. The risk is highest for babies who are born very early or who are
ill at birth. Babies who have a structural defect, and those with no
identified cause for the hydrops are also at higher risk.

## Possible Complications

Brain damage called kernicterus may occur in the case of Rh incompatibility.
Developmental delays have been seen in babies who received intrauterine
transfusions.

## Prevention

Rh incompatibility can be prevented if the mother is given RhoGAM during and
after pregnancy.

## Images

    * ![Hydrops fetalis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22693t.jpg)Hydrops fetalis

## References

Dahlke JD, Magann EF. Immune and nonimmune hydrops fetalis. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 24.

Langlois S, Wilson RD. Fetal hydrops. In: Pandya PP, Oepkes D, Sebire NJ,
Wapner RJ, eds. _Fetal Medicine: Basic Science and Clinical Practice_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 36.

Suhrie KR, Tabbah SM. High-risk pregnancies. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 114.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![Fetal Health and
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FetalHealthandDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Fetal
Health and Development _Read more_

![Incompatibilidad
Rh](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RhIncompatibility_thumb.jpg)Rh
Incompatibility _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

