Link: https://medlineplus.gov/selfharm.html    
                                Description: Self-harm refers to a person harming themselves on purpose. About 1 in 100 people experience this. Learn ways to find relief and cope with emotions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Self-Harm

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/selfharm.html

#  Self-Harm

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Girls
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is self-harm?

Self-harm, or self-injury, is when a person hurts his or her own body on
purpose. The injuries may be minor, but sometimes they can be severe. They may
leave permanent scars or cause serious health problems. Some examples are

    * Cutting yourself (such as using a razor blade, knife, or other sharp object to cut your skin)
    * Punching yourself or punching things (like a wall)
    * Burning yourself with cigarettes, matches, or candles
    * Pulling out your hair
    * Poking objects through body openings
    * Breaking your bones or bruising yourself

Self-harm is not a mental disorder. It is a behavior - an unhealthy way to
cope with strong feelings. However, some of the people who harm themselves do
have a mental disorder.

People who harm themselves are usually not trying to kill themselves. But they
are at higher risk of attempting suicide if they do not get help.

### Why do people harm themselves?

There are different reasons why people harm themselves. Often, they have
trouble coping and dealing with their feelings. They harm themselves to try to

    * Make themselves feel something, when they feel empty or numb inside
    * Block upsetting memories
    * Show that they need help
    * Release strong feelings that overwhelm them, such as anger, loneliness, or hopelessness
    * Punish themselves
    * Feel a sense of control

### Who is at risk for self-harm?

There are people of all ages who harm themselves, but it usually starts in the
teen or early adult years. Self-harm is more common in people who

    * Were abused or went through a trauma as children
    * Have mental disorders, such as 
      * Depression
      * Eating disorders
      * Post-traumatic stress disorder
      * Certain personality disorders
    * Misuse drugs or alcohol
    * Have friends who self-harm
    * Have low self-esteem

### What are the signs of self-harm?

Signs that someone may be hurting themselves include

    * Having frequent cuts, bruises, or scars
    * Wearing long sleeves or pants even in hot weather
    * Making excuses about injuries
    * Having sharp objects around for no clear reason

### How can I help someone who self-harms?

If someone you know is self-harming, it is important not to be judgmental. Let
that person know that you want to help. If the person is a child or teenager,
ask him or her to talk to a trusted adult. If he or she won't do that, talk to
a trusted adult yourself. If the person who is self-harming is an adult,
suggest mental health counseling.

### What the treatments are for self-harm?

There are no medicines to treat self-harming behaviors. But there are
medicines to treat any mental disorders that the person may have, such as
anxiety and depression. Treating the mental disorder may weaken the urge to
self-harm.

Mental health counseling or therapy can also help by teaching the person

    * Problem-solving skills
    * New ways to cope with strong emotions
    * Better relationship skills
    * Ways to strengthen self-esteem

If the problem is severe, the person may need more intensive treatment in a
psychiatric hospital or a mental health day program.

## Start Here

    * Hurtful Emotions: Understanding Self-Harm ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Self-Harm (NAMI)
    * Self-Harm and Trauma (National Center for PTSD)
    * Self-Injury in Adolescents (American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Mental Health Medications ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Psychotherapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)

## Related Issues

    * Teens Homeless with Families More Likely to Self-Harm, Consider and Attempt Suicide than Youth with Homes (American Academy of Pediatrics)

## Specifics

    * Cutting (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Hair Pulling (Trichotillomania) (American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry)
    * Self Harm - Cutting (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Trichotillomania (Hair-Pulling Disorder) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Statistics and Research

    * Youths Treated for Non-Suicidal Self Harm at Increased Risk of Suicide Within a Year (American Academy of Pediatrics)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Self-Injurious Behavior ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Trichotillomania ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Comparison of the demographic and wound characteristics of non-suicidal and suicidal...
    * Article: Self-harm presentations in emergency departments: staff attitudes and triage.
    * Article: Preventing Self-Harm in the Nonpsychiatric Health Care Setting.
    * Self-Harm -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
    * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * Psychologist Locator (American Psychological Association)

## Girls

    * Cutting and Self-Harm (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)

## Teenagers

    * How Can I Help a Friend Who Cuts? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * How Can I Stop Cutting? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Trichotillomania (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Trichotillomania (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Self-harm](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Selfharm.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Trichotillomania

## Related Health Topics

    * Child Behavior Disorders
    * Suicide
    * Teen Mental Health

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Self-Harm is the National
Institute of Mental Health

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 26 February 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

