Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003122.htm    
                                Description: A swollen abdomen is when your belly area is bigger than usual.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdomen - swollen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003122.htm

# Abdomen - swollen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A swollen abdomen is when your belly area is bigger than usual.

## Causes

Abdominal swelling, or distention, is more often caused by overeating than by
a serious illness. This problem also can be caused by:

    * Air swallowing (a nervous habit)
    * Buildup of fluid in the abdomen (this can be a sign of a serious medical problem)
    * Gas in the intestines from eating foods that are high in fiber (such as fruits and vegetables)
    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Lactose intolerance
    * Ovarian cyst
    * Partial bowel blockage
    * Pregnancy
    * Premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
    * Uterine fibroids
    * Weight gain

## Home Care

A swollen abdomen that is caused by eating a heavy meal will go away when you
digest the food. Eating smaller amounts will help prevent swelling.

For a swollen abdomen caused by swallowing air:

    * Avoid carbonated beverages.
    * Avoid chewing gum or sucking on candies.
    * Avoid drinking through a straw or sipping the surface of a hot beverage.
    * Eat slowly. 

For a swollen abdomen caused by malabsorption, try changing your diet and
limiting milk. Talk to your health care provider.

For irritable bowel syndrome:

    * Decrease emotional stress.
    * Increase dietary fiber.
    * Talk to your provider.

For a swollen abdomen due to other causes, follow the treatment prescribed by
your provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * The abdominal swelling is getting worse and does not go away.
    * The swelling occurs with other unexplained symptoms.
    * Your abdomen is tender to the touch.
    * You have a high fever.
    * You have severe diarrhea or bloody stools.
    * You are unable to eat or drink for more than 6 to 8 hours. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
medical history, such as when the problem began and when it occurs.

The provider will also ask about other symptoms you may be having, such as:

    * Absent menstrual period
    * Diarrhea
    * Excessive fatigue
    * Excessive gas or belching
    * Irritability
    * Vomiting
    * Weight gain 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Blood tests
    * Colonoscopy
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
    * Paracentesis
    * Sigmoidoscopy
    * Stool analysis
    * X-rays of the abdomen

## Alternative Names

Swollen belly; Swelling in the abdomen; Abdominal distention; Distended
abdomen

## References

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Raftery AT, Lim E, ÃstÃ¶r AJK. Abdominal swellings. In: Raftery AT, Lim E,
ÃstÃ¶r AJK, eds. _Churchill's Pocketbook of Differential Diagnosis_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:10-25.

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

