Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000846.htm    
                                Description: Angioedema is swelling that is similar to hives, but the swelling is under the skin instead of on the surface.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angioedema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000846.htm

# Angioedema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angioedema is swelling that is similar to hives, but the swelling is under the
skin instead of on the surface.

Hives are often called welts. They are a surface swelling. It is possible to
have angioedema without hives.

## Causes

Angioedema may be caused by an allergic reaction. During the reaction,
histamine and other chemicals are released into the bloodstream. The body
releases histamine when the immune system detects a foreign substance called
an allergen.

In most cases, the cause of angioedema is never found.

The following may cause angioedema:

    * Animal dander (scales of shed skin)
    * Exposure to water, sunlight, cold or heat
    * Foods (such as berries, shellfish, fish, nuts, eggs, and milk)
    * Insect bites
    * Medicines (drug allergy) such as antibiotics (penicillin and sulfa drugs), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and blood pressure medicines (ACE inhibitors)
    * Pollen 

Hives and angioedema may also occur after infections or with other illnesses
(including autoimmune disorders such as lupus, and leukemia and lymphoma).

A form of angioedema runs in families and has different triggers,
complications, and treatments. This is called hereditary angioedema.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is sudden swelling below the skin surface. Welts or swelling
on the surface of the skin can also develop.

The swelling usually occurs around the eyes and lips. It may also be found on
the hands, feet, and throat. The swelling may form a line or be more spread
out.

The welts are painful and may be itchy. This is known as hives (urticaria).
They turn pale and swell if irritated. The deeper swelling of angioedema may
also be painful.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal cramping
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Swollen eyes and mouth
    * Swollen lining of the eyes (chemosis) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look at your skin and ask if you have been
exposed to any irritating substances.Â If your throat is affected, aÂ physical
exam might reveal abnormal sounds (stridor) when you breathe in.

Blood tests or allergy testing may be ordered.

## Treatment

Mild symptoms may not need treatment. Moderate to severe symptoms may need to
be treated. Breathing difficulty is an emergency condition.

People with angioedema should:

    * Avoid any known allergen or trigger that causes their symptoms.
    * Avoid any medicines, herbs, or supplements that are not prescribed by a provider. 

Cool compresses or soaks can relieve pain.

Medicines used to treat angioedema include:

    * Antihistamines
    * Anti-inflammatory medicines (corticosteroids) 
    * Epinephrine shots (people with a history of severe symptoms can carry these with them)
    * Inhaler medicines that help open up the airways

If the person has trouble breathing, seek medical help right away. A severe,
life-threatening airway blockage may occur if the throat swells.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Angioedema that does not affect the breathing may be uncomfortable. It is
usually harmless and goes away in a few days.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Angioedema does not respond to treatment
    * It is severe
    * You have never had angioedema before

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
there are any of the following symptoms:

    * Abnormal breathing sounds
    * Difficulty breathing or wheezing
    * Fainting

## Alternative Names

Angioneurotic edema; Welts; Allergic reaction - angioedema; Hives - angioedema

## References

Barksdale AN, Muelleman RL. Allergy, hypersensitivity, and anaphylaxis. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
109.

Dreskin SC. Urticaria and angioedema. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 252.

Habif TP. Urticaria, angioedema, and pruritus. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

