Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003104.htm    
                                Description: Painless swelling of the feet and ankles is a common problem, especially among older people.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foot, leg, and ankle swelling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003104.htm

# Foot, leg, and ankle swelling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Painless swelling of the feet and ankles is a common problem, especially among
older people.

Abnormal buildup of fluid in the ankles, feet, and legs can cause swelling.
This fluid buildup and swelling is called edema.

## Considerations

Painless swelling may affect both legs and may include the calves or even the
thighs. The effect of gravity makes the swelling most noticeable in the lower
part of the body.

## Causes

Foot, leg, and ankle swelling is common when the person also:

    * Is overweight
    * Has a blood clot in the leg
    * Is older
    * Has a leg infection
    * Has veins in the legs that cannot properly pump blood back to the heart (called venous insufficiency)

Injury or surgery involving the leg, ankle, or foot can also cause swelling.
Swelling may also occur after pelvic surgery, especially for cancer.

Long airplane flights or car rides, as well as standing for long periods of
time, often lead to some swelling in the feet and ankles.

Swelling may occur in women who take estrogen, or during parts of the
menstrual cycle. Most women have some swelling during pregnancy. More severe
swelling during pregnancy may be a sign of preeclampsia, a serious condition
that includes high blood pressure and swelling.

Swollen legs may be a sign of heart failure, kidney failure, or liver failure.
In these conditions, there is too much fluid in the body.

Certain medicines may also cause your legs to swell. Some of these are:

    * Antidepressants, including MAO inhibitors and tricyclics
    * Blood pressure medicines called calcium channel blockers
    * Hormones, such as estrogen (in birth control pills or hormone replacement therapy) and testosterone
    * Steroids 

## Home Care

Some tips that may help reduce swelling:

    * Put your legs on pillows to raise them above your heart while lying down.
    * Exercise your legs. This helps pump fluid from your legs back to your heart.
    * Follow a low-salt diet, which may reduce fluid buildup and swelling.
    * Wear support stockings (sold at most drugstores and medical supply stores).
    * When traveling, take breaks often to stand up and move around.
    * Avoid wearing tight clothing or garters around your thighs.
    * Lose weight if you need to.

Never stop taking any medicines you think may be causing swelling without
first talking to your health care provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if:

    * You feel short of breath.
    * You have chest pain, especially if it feels like pressure or tightness. 

Call your provider right away if:

    * You have heart disease or kidney disease and the swelling gets worse.
    * You have a history of liver disease and now have swelling in your legs or abdomen.
    * Your swollen foot or leg is red or warm to the touch.
    * You have a fever.
    * You are pregnant and have more than just mild swelling or have a sudden increase in swelling. 

Also call your provider if self-care measures do not help or swelling gets
worse.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and do a thorough physical
examination, paying special attention to your heart, lungs, abdomen, lymph
nodes, legs, and feet.

Your provider will ask questions such as:

    * What body parts swell? Your ankles, feet, legs? Above the knee or below?
    * Do you have swelling at all times or is it worse in the morning or evening?
    * What makes your swelling better?
    * What makes your swelling worse?
    * Does the swelling get better when you raise your legs?
    * Have you had blood clots in your legs or lungs?
    * Have you had varicose veins?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

Diagnostic tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests, such as a CBC or blood chemistry
    * Chest x-ray or extremity x-ray
    * Doppler ultrasound examination of your leg veins
    * ECG
    * Urinalysis

Your treatment will focus on the cause of the swelling. Your provider may
prescribe diuretics to reduce the swelling, but these can have side effects.
Home treatment for leg swelling that is not related to a serious medical
condition should be tried before drug therapy.

## Alternative Names

Swelling of the ankles - feet - legs; Ankle swelling; Foot swelling; Leg
swelling; Edema - peripheral; Peripheral edema

## Images

    * ![Foot swelling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19607t.jpg)Foot swelling
    * ![Lower leg edema](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8857t.jpg)Lower leg edema

## References

Goldman L. Approach to the patient with possible cardiovascular disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Swelling of the legs. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds.
_Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 31.

Trayes KP, Studdiford JS, Pickle S, Tully AS. Edema: diagnosis and management.
_Am Fam Physician_. 2013;88(2):102-110. PMID: 23939641
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23939641.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ankle](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkleInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ankle
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

