Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003353.htm    
                                Description: C1 esterase inhibitor (C1-INH) is a protein found in the fluid part of your blood. It controls a protein called C1, which is part of the complement system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

C1 esterase inhibitor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003353.htm

# C1 esterase inhibitor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

C1 esterase inhibitor (C1-INH) is a protein found in the fluid part of your
blood. It controls a protein called C1, which is part of the complement
system.

The complement system is a group of nearly 60 proteins in blood plasma or on
the surface of some cells. The complement proteins work with your immune
system to protect the body from infections. They also help remove dead cells
and foreign material. There are nine major complement proteins. They are
labeled C1 through C9. Rarely, people may inherit deficiency of some
complement proteins. These people are prone to certain infections or
autoimmune disorders.

This article discusses the test that is done to measure the amount of C1-INH
in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This is most often taken through a vein. The
procedure is called a venipuncture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others may feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have signs of hereditary or acquired angioedema.
Both forms of angioedema are caused by low levels of C1-INH.

Complement factors may also be important in testing for autoimmune diseases,
such as systemic lupus erythematosus.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Your
health care provider will also measure the functional activity level of your
C1 esterase inhibitor. Talk to your provider about the meaning of your
specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Low levels of C1-INH may cause certain types of angioedema. Angioedema results
in sudden swelling of the tissues of the face, upper throat and tongue. It may
also cause difficulty breathing. Swelling in the intestine and abdominal pain
may also occur. There are two types of angioedema that result from decreased
levels of C1-INH. Hereditary angioedema affects children and young adults
under age 20. Acquired angioedema is seen in adults older than age 40. Adults
with acquired angioedema are much more likely to also have other conditions
such as such as cancer or autoimmune disease.

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

C1 inhibiting factor; C1-INH

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Cicardi M, Aberer W, Banerji A, et al. Classification, diagnosis, and approach
to treatment for angioedema: consensus report from the Hereditary Angioedema
International Working Group. _Allergy_. 2014;69(5):602-616. PMID: 24673465
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24673465.

Leslie TA, Greaves MW. Hereditary angioedema. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR,
Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 101.

Zanichelli A, Azin GM, Wu MA, et al. Diagnosis, course, and management of
angioedema in patients with acquired C1-inhibitor deficiency. _J Allergy Clin
Immunol Pract_. 2017;5(5):1307-1313. PMID: 28284781
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28284781.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Edema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Edema_thumb.jpg)Edema _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

