Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003068.htm    
                                Description: A hiccup is an unintentional movement (spasm) of the diaphragm, the muscle at the base of the lungs. The spasm is followed by quick closing of the vocal cords. This closing of vocal chords produces a distinctive    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hiccups

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003068.htm

# Hiccups

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hiccup is an unintentional movement (spasm) of the diaphragm, the muscle at
the base of the lungs. The spasm is followed by quick closing of the vocal
cords. This closing of vocal chords produces a distinctive sound.

## Considerations

Hiccups often start for no apparent reason. They most often disappear after a
few minutes. In rare cases, hiccups can last for days, weeks, or months.
Hiccups are common and normal in newborns and infants.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Abdominal surgery
    * Disease or disorder that irritates the nerves that control the diaphragm (including pleurisy, pneumonia, or upper abdominal diseases)
    * Hot and spicy foods or liquids
    * Harmful fumes
    * Stroke or tumor affecting the brain 

There is usually no specific cause for hiccups.

## Home Care

There is no sure way to stop hiccups, but there are a number of common
suggestions that can be tried:

    * Breathe repeatedly into a paper bag.
    * Drink a glass of cold water.
    * Eat a teaspoon (4 grams) of sugar.
    * Hold your breath. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if hiccups go on for more than a few days.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

If you need to see your provider for hiccups, you will have a physical exam
and be asked questions about the problem.

Questions may include:

    * Do you get hiccups easily?
    * How long has this episode of hiccups lasted?
    * Did you recently eat something hot or spicy?
    * Did you recently drink carbonated beverages?
    * Have you been exposed to any fumes?
    * What have you tried to relieve the hiccups?
    * What has been effective for you in the past?
    * How effective was the attempt?
    * Did the hiccups stop for a while and then restart?
    * Do you have other symptoms?

Additional tests are only done when a disease or disorder is suspected as the
cause.

To treat hiccups that do not go away, the provider may perform gastric lavage
or massage of the carotid sinus in the neck. DO NOT try carotid massage by
yourself. This must be done by a provider.

If hiccups continue, medicines may help. Tube insertion into the stomach
(nasogastric intubation) may also help.

In very rare cases, if medicines or other methods do not work, treatment such
as phrenic nerve block may be tried. The phrenic nerve controls the diaphragm.

## Alternative Names

Singultus

## References

American Cancer Society website. Hiccups. www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-
and-side-effects/physical-side-effects/hiccups.html. Updated June 8, 2015.
Accessed January 30, 2019.

Petroianu GA. Hiccups. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:28-30.

US Department of Health and Human Services website. Chronic hiccups.
rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/6657/chronic-hiccups. Updated December 1,
2018. Accessed January 30, 2019.

## Review Date 1/19/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![Hiccups](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hiccup_thumb.jpg)Hiccups _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

