Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003020.htm    
                                Description: Meningocele repair (also known as myelomeningocele repair) is surgery to repair birth defects of the spine and spinal membranes. Meningocele and myelomeningocele are types of spina bifida.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meningocele repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003020.htm

# Meningocele repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meningocele repair (also known as myelomeningocele repair) is surgery to
repair birth defects of the spine and spinal membranes. Meningocele and
myelomeningocele are types of spina bifida.

## Description

For both meningoceles and myelomeningoceles, the surgeon will close the
opening in the back.

After birth, the defect is covered by a sterile dressing. Your child may then
be transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Care will be provided
by a medical team with experience in children with spina bifida.

Your baby will likely have an MRI (magnetic resonance imagining) or ultrasound
of the back. An MRI or ultrasound of the brain may be done to look for
hydrocephalus (extra fluid in the brain).

If the myelomeningocele is not covered by skin or a membrane when your child
is born, surgery will be done within 24 to 48 hours after birth. This is to
prevent infection.

If your child has hydrocephalus, a shunt (plastic tube) will be put in the
child's brain to drain the extra fluid to the stomach. This prevents pressure
that could damage the baby's brain. The shunt is called a ventriculoperitoneal
shunt.

Your child should not be exposed to latex before, during, and after surgery.
Many children with this condition have very bad allergies to latex.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Repair of a meningocele or myelomeningocele is needed to prevent infection and
further injury to the child's spinal cord and nerves. Surgery cannot correct
the defects in the spinal cord or nerves.

## Risks

Risks for any anesthesia and surgery are:

    * Breathing problems
    * Reactions to medicines
    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Fluid buildup and pressure in the brain (hydrocephalus)
    * Increased chance of urinary tract infection and bowel problems
    * Infection or inflammation of the spinal cord
    * Paralysis, weakness, or sensation changes due to loss of nerve function 

## Before the Procedure

A health care provider often will find these defects before birth using fetal
ultrasound. The provider will follow the fetus very closely until birth. It is
better if the infant is carried to full term. Your doctor will want to do a
cesarean delivery (C-section). This will prevent further damage to the sac or
exposed spinal tissue.

## After the Procedure

Your child will most often need to spend about 2 weeks in the hospital after
surgery. The child must lie flat without touching the wound area. After
surgery, your child will receive antibiotics to prevent infection.

MRI or ultrasound of the brain is repeated after surgery to see if
hydrocephalus develops once the defect in the back is repaired.

Your child may need physical, occupational, and speech therapy. Many children
with these problems have gross (large) and fine (small) motor disabilities,
and swallowing problems, early in life.

The child may need to see a team of medical experts in spina bifida often
after discharge from the hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a child does depends on the initial condition of their spinal cord
and nerves. After a meningocele repair, children often do very well and have
no further brain, nerve, or muscle problems.

Children born with myelomeningocele most often have paralysis or weakness of
the muscles below the level of their spine where the defect is. They also may
not be able to control their bladder or bowels. They will likely need medical
and educational support for many years.

The ability to walk and control bowel and bladder function depends where the
birth defect was on the spine. Defects lower down on the spinal cord may have
a better outcome.

## Alternative Names

Myelomeningocele repair; Myelomeningocele closure; Myelodysplasia repair;
Spinal dysraphism repair; Meningomyelocele repair; Neural tube defect repair;
Spina bifida repair

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Meningocele repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/13982t.jpg)Meningocele repair - series

## References

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 609.

Ortega-Barnett J, Mohanty A, Desai SK, Patterson JT. Neurosurgery. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 67.

Robinson S, Cohen AR. Myelomeningocele and related neural tube defects. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
65.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Spina Bifida](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinaBifida_thumb.jpg)Spina
Bifida _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

