Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001558.htm    
                                Description: Myelomeningocele is a birth defect in which the backbone and spinal canal do not close before birth.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myelomeningocele

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001558.htm

# Myelomeningocele

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Myelomeningocele is a birth defect in which the backbone and spinal canal do
not close before birth.

The condition is a type of spina bifida.

## Causes

Normally, during the first month of a pregnancy, the two sides of the baby's
spine (or backbone) join together to cover the spinal cord, spinal nerves, and
meninges (the tissues covering the spinal cord). The developing brain and
spine at this point are called the neural tube. Spina bifida refers to any
birth defect in which the neural tube in the area of the spine fails to close
completely.

Myelomeningocele is a neural tube defect in which the bones of the spine do
not completely form. This results in an incomplete spinal canal. The spinal
cord and meninges (the tissues covering the spinal cord) protrude from the
child's back.

Myelomeningocele may affect as many as 1 out of every 4,000 infants.

The rest of spina bifida cases are most commonly:

    * Spina bifida occulta, a condition in which the bones of the spine do not close. The spinal cord and meninges remain in place and skin usually covers the defect.
    * Meningoceles, a condition where the meninges protrude from the spinal defect. The spinal cord remains in place. 

Other congenital disorders or birth defects may also be present in a child
with myelomeningocele. Eight out of ten children with myelomeningocele have
hydrocephalus.

Other disorders of the spinal cord or musculoskeletal system may be seen,
including:

    * Syringomyelia (a fluid-filled cyst within the spinal cord)
    * Hip dislocation 

The cause of myelomeningocele is not known. However, low levels of folic acid
in a woman's body before and during early pregnancy appear to play a part in
this type of birth defect. Folic acid (or folate) is important for development
of brain and spinal cord.

If a child is born with myelomeningocele, future children in that family have
a higher risk than the general population. However, in many cases, there is no
family connection. Factors such as diabetes, obesity, and the use of anti-
seizure medicines in the mother may increase the risk of this defect.

## Symptoms

A newborn with this disorder will have an open area or a fluid-filled sac on
the mid to lower back.

Symptoms may include:

    * Loss of bladder or bowel control
    * Partial or complete lack of sensation
    * Partial or complete paralysis of the legs
    * Weakness of the hips, legs, or feet of a newborn 

Other signs and/or symptoms may include:

    * Abnormal feet or legs, such as clubfoot
    * Buildup of fluid inside the skull (hydrocephalus) 

## Exams and Tests

Prenatal screening can help detect this condition. During the second
trimester, pregnant women can have a blood test called the quadruple screen.
This test screens for myelomeningocele, Down syndrome, and other congenital
diseases in the baby. Most women carrying a baby with spina bifida will have
an increased level of a protein called maternal alpha fetoprotein (AFP).

If the quadruple screen test is positive, further testing is needed to confirm
the diagnosis.

Such tests may include:

    * Pregnancy ultrasound
    * Amniocentesis

Myelomeningocele can be seen after the child is born. A neurologic exam may
show that the child has loss of nerve-related functions below the defect. For
example, watching how the infant responds to pinpricks at various locations
may tell where the baby can feel the sensations.

Tests done on the baby after birth may include x-rays, ultrasound, CT, or MRI
of the spinal area.

## Treatment

The health care provider may suggest genetic counseling. In some cases where a
severe defect is detected early in the pregnancy, termination (abortion) may
be considered. However, intrauterine surgery to close the defect (before the
baby is born) may reduce the risk of some later complications.

After your baby is born, surgery to repair the defect is most often suggested
within the first few days of life. Before surgery, the infant must be handled
carefully to reduce damage to the exposed spinal cord. This may include:

    * Special care and positioning
    * Protective devices
    * Changes in the methods of handling, feeding, and bathing

Children who also have hydrocephalus may need a ventriculoperitoneal shunt
placed. This will help drain the extra fluid from the ventricles (in the
brain) to the peritoneal cavity (in the abdomen).

Antibiotics may be used to treat or prevent infections such as meningitis or
urinary tract infections.

Most children will need lifelong treatment for problems that result from
damage to the spinal cord and spinal nerves.

This includes:

    * Bladder and bowel problems -- Gentle downward pressure over the bladder may help drain the bladder. Drainage tubes, called catheters, may be needed as well. Bowel training programs and a high fiber diet may improve bowel function.
    * Muscle and joint problems -- Orthopedic or physical therapy may be needed to treat musculoskeletal symptoms. Braces may be needed. Many people with myelomeningocele primarily use a wheelchair.

Follow-up exams generally continue throughout the child's life. These are done
to:

    * Check the developmental progressÂ 
    * Treat any intellectual, neurological, or physical problems

Visiting nurses, social services, support groups, and local agencies can
provide emotional support and assist with the care of a child with a
myelomeningocele who has significant problems or limitations.

## Support Groups

Taking part in a spina bifida support group may be helpful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A myelomeningocele can most often be surgically corrected, but the affected
nerves may still not function normally. The higher the location of the defect
on the baby's back, the more nerves will be affected.

With early treatment, length of life is not severely affected. Kidney problems
due to poor drainage of urine are the most common cause of death.

Most children with myelomeningocele will have normal intelligence. However,
because of the risk of hydrocephalus and meningitis, more of these children
will have learning problems and seizure disorders.

New problems within the spinal cord can develop later in life, especially
after the child begins growing rapidly during puberty. This can lead to more
loss of function as well as orthopedic problems such as scoliosis, foot or
ankle deformities, dislocated hips, and joint tightness or contractures.

Many people with myelomeningocele primarily use a wheelchair.

## Possible Complications

Complications of spina bifida may include:

    * Traumatic birth and difficult delivery of the baby
    * Frequent urinary tract infections
    * Fluid buildup on the brain (hydrocephalus)
    * Loss of bowel or bladder control
    * Brain infection (meningitis)
    * Permanent weakness or paralysis of legs

This list may not be all-inclusive.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * A sac or open area is visible on the spine of a newborn infant
    * The child is late in walking or crawling
    * Symptoms of hydrocephalus develop, including bulging soft spot, irritability, extreme sleepiness, and feeding difficulties
    * Symptoms of meningitis develop, including fever, stiff neck, irritability, and a high-pitched cry 

## Prevention

Folic acid supplements may help reduce the risk of neural tube defects such as
myelomeningocele. It is recommended that any woman considering becoming
pregnant take 0.4 mg of folic acid a day. Pregnant women with high risk need
higher dosage.

It is important to remember that folic acid deficiencies must be corrected
before becoming pregnant, because the defects develop very early.

Women who plan to become pregnant may be screened to determine the amount of
folic acid in their blood.

## Alternative Names

Meningomyelocele; Spina bifida; Cleft spine; Neural tube defect (NTD); Birth
defect - myelomeningocele

## Patient Instructions

    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

## Images

    * ![Spina bifida](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19086t.jpg)Spina bifida
    * ![Spina bifida \(degrees of severity\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19087t.jpg)Spina bifida (degrees of severity)

## References

Cohen AR, Couto J, Cummings JJ, et al. Position statement on fetal
myelomeningocele repair. _Am J Obstet Gynecol_. 2014;210(2):107-111. PMID:
24055581 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24055581.

Committee on Obstetric Practice, Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine. American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. ACOG Committee opinion no. 720:
maternal-fetal surgery for myelomeningocele. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2017;130(3):e164-e167. PMID:28832491 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28832491.

Copp AJ, Adzink NS, Chitty LS, Fletcher JM, Holmbeck GN, Shaw GM. Spina
bifida. _Nat Rev Dis Primers_. 2015;1:15007. PMID: 27189655
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27189655.

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 591.

Wilson P, Stewart J. Meningomyelocele (spina bifida). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 715.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Spina Bifida](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinaBifida_thumb.jpg)Spina
Bifida _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

