Link: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/how-naloxone-saves-lives-in-opioid-overdose/    
                                Description: Naloxone saves lives. This video reviews when naloxone is used, how it is administered, and the way it works.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Videos ->

How Naloxone Saves Lives in Opioid Overdose

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/how-naloxone-
saves-lives-in-opioid-overdose/

# How Naloxone Saves Lives in Opioid Overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play Video

For closed captioning, click the CC button on the lower right-hand corner of
the player.

Video player keyboard shortcuts

## Video Outline

0:18 What is an opioid?

0:41 Naloxone introduction

0:59 Signs of opioid overdose

1:25 How is naloxone given?

1:50 How does naloxone work?

2:13 How do opioids affect the body?

3:04 Opioid withdrawal symptoms

3:18 Tolerance

3:32 How opioid overdose can lead to death

4:39 NIH HEAL Initiative and NIDA research

## Transcript

 **How Naloxone Saves Lives in Opioid Overdose**

NALOXONE SAVES LIVES.

No time to sit idly by. More and more people are dying of overdose from the
likes of heroin, fentanyl, and prescription pain medications like oxycodone
and hydrocodone. These are all examples of opioids.

Opioids are drugs derived from the opium poppy plant or made in the lab. They
can treat pain, cough and diarrhea. But opioids can also be addictive and even
deadly.Â

The number of opioid overdose deaths has escalated more than 400% since the
turn of the century, with tens of thousands of lives now being lost every
year.

But many deaths can be prevented with a life-saving treatment: naloxone.

When given right away, naloxone can work in minutes to reverse an overdose.
Naloxone is safe, has few side effects, and some forms can be administered by
friends and family.

 **When is naloxone used?**

You can save a life. First, recognize signs of overdose:

    * Limp body
    * Pale, clammy face
    * Blue fingernails or lips
    * Vomiting or gurgling sounds
    * Inability to speak or be awakened
    * Slow breathing or heartbeat

If you see these symptoms, call 911 immediately and consider the use of
naloxone if available.Â

**How is naloxone given?**

Home preparations include a nasal spray given to someone while they lie on
their back or a device that automatically injects medicine into the thigh.
Sometimes more than one dose is needed.

The personâs breathing also needs to be monitored. If the person stops
breathing, consider rescue breaths and CPR if you are trained until first
responders arrive.Â

**How does naloxone work?**

Naloxone is an opioid antagonist, which means that it blocks opioid receptors
from being activated. It is so strongly attracted to the receptors that it
knocks other opioids off. When opioids are sitting on their receptors, they
change the activity of the cell.

Opioid receptors are found on nerve cells all around the body:

    * In the brain, opioids produce feelings of comfort and sleepiness.
    * In the brainstem, opioids relax breathing and reduce cough.
    * In the spinal cord and peripheral nerves, opioids slow down pain signals.
    * In the gastrointestinal tract, opioids are constipating. 

These opioid actions can be helpful! The body actually produces its own
opioids called âendorphins,â which help calm the body in times of stress.
Endorphins help produce the ârunnerâs highâ that helps marathon runners
get through grueling races.

But opioid drugs, like prescription pain medications or heroin, have much
stronger opioid effects. And they are more dangerous.

Over time, frequent opioid use makes the body dependent on the drugs. When the
opioids are taken away, the body reacts with withdrawal symptoms such as
headache, racing heart, soaking sweats, vomiting, diarrhea, and tremors. For
many, the symptoms feel unbearable.

Over time, opioid receptors also become less responsive and the body develops
tolerance to the drugs. More drugs are needed to produce the same
effects...which makes overdose more likely.

Overdose is dangerous especially for its effect in the brainstem, relaxing
breathing. Breathing can be relaxed so much that it stopsâ¦leading to death.

Naloxone knocks opioids off their receptors all around the body. In the
brainstem, naloxone can restore the drive to breathe. And save a life.Â

But even if naloxone is successful, opioids are still floating around, so
expert medical care should be sought as soon as possible. Naloxone works for
30-90 minutes before the opioids return to their receptors.Â

Naloxone may promote withdrawal because it knocks opioids off their receptors
so quickly. But otherwise naloxone is safe and unlikely to produce side
effects.Â

Naloxone saves lives. From 1996 to 2014, at least 26,500 opioid overdoses in
the United States were reversed by laypersons using naloxone.Â

While naloxone is a potentially life-saving treatment, more needs to be done
to solve the opioid overdose epidemic.Â

The National Institutes of Health launched the HEAL Initiative in 2018,
expanding research across multiple NIH Institutes and Centers to speed
scientific solutions to the national opioid crisis. Research is underway to
improve treatments for opioid misuse and addiction, and to enhance pain
management. The National Institute on Drug Abuse, or NIDA, is the leading NIH
institute for research on opioid misuse and addiction, and its support helped
the development of the user-friendly naloxone nasal spray.

For more information, see NIDAâs website at drugabuse.gov and search
ânaloxone,â or visit nih.gov and search âNIH heal initiative.â General
opioid information can also be found at MedlinePlus.gov.

This video was produced by MedlinePlus, a trusted source of health information
from the National Library of Medicine.

## Video Information

 **Published January 15, 2019**

View this video on the MedlinePlus playlist at the U.S. National Library of
Medicine YouTube channel at: https://youtu.be/cssRZEI9ujY

 **ANIMATION:** Jeff Day

 **NARRATION:** Josie Anderson

 **MUSIC:** âRestlessâ, by Dimitris Mann; âEndurance Testâ, by Eric
Chevalier; âAnxietyâ instrumental, by Jimmi Jan Joakim Hallstrom, John
Henry Andersson

## Related Health Topics

    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction
    * Opioid Misuse and Addiction Treatment
    * Opioid Overdose
    * Safe Opioid Use

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

