Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001517.htm    
                                Description: Trichotillomania is hair loss from repeated urges to pull or twist the hair until it breaks off. People are unable to stop this behavior, even as their hair becomes thinner.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trichotillomania

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001517.htm

# Trichotillomania

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trichotillomania is hair loss from repeated urges to pull or twist the hair
until it breaks off. People are unable to stop this behavior, even as their
hair becomes thinner.

## Causes

Trichotillomania is a type of impulsive control disorder. Its causes are not
clearly understood.

It may affect as much as 4% of the population. Women are 4 times more likely
to be affected than men.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often begin before age 17. The hair may come out in round
patches or across the scalp. The effect is an uneven appearance. The person
may pluck other hairy areas, such as the eyebrows, eyelashes, or body hair.

These symptoms are most often seen in children:

    * An uneven appearance to the hair
    * Bare patches or all around (diffuse) loss of hair
    * Bowel blockage (obstruction) if people eat the hair they pull out
    * Constant tugging, pulling, or twisting of hair
    * Denying the hair pulling
    * Hair regrowth that feels like stubble in the bare spots
    * Increasing sense of tension before the hair pulling
    * Other self-injury behaviors
    * Sense of relief, pleasure, or gratification after the hair pulling

Most people with this disorder also have problems with:

    * Feeling sad or depressed
    * Anxiety
    * Poor self-image

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your skin, hair, and scalp. A piece of
tissue may be removed (biopsy) to find other causes, such as a scalp
infection, and to explain the hair loss.

## Treatment

Experts don't agree on the use of medicine for treatment. However, naltrexone
and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been shown to be
effective in reducing some symptoms. Behavioral therapy and habit reversal may
also be effective.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Trichotillomania that begins in younger children (less than 6 years old) may
go away without treatment. For most people, the hair pulling ends within 12
months.

For others, trichotillomania is a lifelong disorder. However, treatment often
improves the hair pulling and the feelings of depression, anxiety, or poor
self-image.

## Possible Complications

People can have complications when they eat the pulled-out hair
(trichophagia). This can cause a blockage in the intestines or lead to poor
nutrition.

## Prevention

Early detection is the best form of prevention because it leads to early
treatment. Decreasing stress can help, because stress may increase compulsive
behavior.

## Alternative Names

Trichotillosis; Compulsive hair pulling

## Images

    * ![Trichotillomania - top of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2365t.jpg)Trichotillomania - top of the head

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Obsessive-compulsive and related disorders.
In: _American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:235-264.

Martin KL. Disorders of hair. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 662.

Weissman AR, Gould CM, Sanders KM. Impulse-control disorders. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 23.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Child Behavior
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBehaviorDisorders_thumb.jpg)Child
Behavior Disorders _Read more_

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HairLoss_thumb.jpg)Hair Loss _Read
more_

![Self-harm](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Selfharm_thumb.jpg)Self-Harm _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

