Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001476.htm    
                                Description: Selective deficiency of IgA is the most common immune deficiency disorder. People with this disorder have a low or absent level of a blood protein called immunoglobulin A.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Selective deficiency of IgA

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001476.htm

# Selective deficiency of IgA

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Selective deficiency of IgA is the most common immune deficiency disorder.
People with this disorder have a low or absent level of a blood protein called
immunoglobulin A.

## Causes

IgA deficiency is usually inherited, which means it is passed down through
families. However, cases of drug-induced IgA deficiency have been reported.

It may be inherited as an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive trait. It
is usually found in people of European origin. It is less common in people of
other ethnicities.

## Symptoms

Many people with selective IgA deficiency have no symptoms.

If a person does have symptoms, they may include frequent episodes of:

    * Bronchitis (airway infection)
    * Chronic diarrhea
    * Conjunctivitis (eye infection)
    * Gastrointestinal inflammation, including ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease, and a sprue-like illness
    * Mouth infection
    * Otitis media (middle ear infection)
    * Pneumonia (lung infection)
    * SinusitisÂ (sinus infection)
    * Skin infections
    * Upper respiratory tract infections 

Other symptoms include:

    * Bronchiectasis (a disease in which the small air sacs in the lungs become damaged and enlarged)
    * Asthma without a known cause

## Exams and Tests

There may be a family history of IgA deficiency. Tests that may be done
include:

    * IgG subclass measurements 
    * Quantitative immunoglobulins
    * Serum immunoelectrophoresis

## Treatment

No specific treatment is available. Some people gradually develop normal
levels of IgA without treatment.

Treatment involves taking steps to reduce the number and severity of
infections. Antibiotics are often needed to treat bacterial infections.

Immunoglobulins are given through a vein or by injection to boost the immune
system.

Autoimmune disease treatment is based on the specific problem.

Note: People with complete IgA deficiency may develop anti-IgA antibodies if
given blood products and immunoglobulins. This may lead to allergies or life-
threatening anaphylactic shock. However, they can safely be given IgA-depleted
immunoglobulins.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Selective IgA deficiency is less harmful than many other immunodeficiency
diseases.

Some people with IgA deficiency will recover on their own and produce IgA in
larger quantities over a period of years.

## Possible Complications

Autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus
erythematosus, and celiac sprue may develop.

People with IgA deficiency may develop antibodies to IgA. As a result, they
can have severe, even life-threatening reactions to transfusions of blood and
blood products.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have an IgA deficiency, be sure to mention it to your health care
provider if immunoglobulin or other blood-component transfusions are suggested
as a treatment for any condition.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be of value to prospective parents with a family
history of selective IgA deficiency.

## Alternative Names

IgA deficiency; Immunodepressed - IgA deficiency; Immunosuppressed - IgA
deficiency; Hypogammaglobulinemia - IgA deficiency; Agammaglobulinemia - IgA
deficiency

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Buckley RH. Primary defects of antibody production. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 124.

Cunningham-Rundles C. Primary immunodeficiency diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 250.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

