Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000820.htm    
                                Description: Serum sickness is a reaction that is similar to an allergy. The immune system reacts to medicines that contain proteins used to treat immune conditions. It can also react to antiserum, the liquid part    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Serum sickness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000820.htm

# Serum sickness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Serum sickness is a reaction that is similar to an allergy. The immune system
reacts to medicines that contain proteins used to treat immune conditions. It
can also react to antiserum, the liquid part of blood that contains antibodies
given to a person to help protect them against germs or poisonous substances.

## Causes

Plasma is the clear fluid portion of blood. It does not contain blood cells.
But it does contain many proteins, including antibodies, which are formed as
part of the immune response to protect against infection.

Antiserum is produced from the plasma of a person or animal that has immunity
against an infection or poisonous substance. Antiserum may be used to protect
a person who has been exposed to a germ or toxin. For example, you may receive
a certain type of antiserum injection:

    * If you have been exposed to tetanus or rabiesÂ and have never been vaccinated against these germs. This is called passive immunization.
    * If you have been bitten by a snake that produces a dangerous toxin.

During serum sickness, the immune system falsely identifies a protein in
antiserum as a harmful substance (antigen). The result is an immune system
response that attacks the antiserum. Immune system elements and the antiserum
combine to form immune complexes, which cause the symptoms of serum sickness.

Certain medicines (such as penicillin, cefaclor, and sulfa) can cause a
similar reaction.

Injected proteins such as antithymocyte globulin (used to treat organ
transplant rejection) and rituximab (used to treat immune disorders and
cancers) can cause serum sickness reactions.

Blood products may also cause serum sickness.

## Symptoms

Unlike other drug allergies, which occur very soon after receiving the
medicine, serum sickness develops 7 to 21 days after the first exposure to a
medicine. Some people develop symptoms in 1 to 3 days if they have already
been exposed to the medicine.

Symptoms of serum sickness can include:

    * Fever
    * General ill feeling
    * Hives
    * Itching
    * Joint pain
    * Rash
    * Swollen lymph nodes 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform an exam to look for lymph nodes that are
enlarged and tender to the touch.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Urine test
    * Blood test

## Treatment

Medicines, such as corticosteroids, applied to the skin may relieve discomfort
from itching and a rash.

Antihistamines may shorten the length of the illness and help ease a rash and
itching.

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen or naproxen,
may relieve joint pain. Corticosteroids taken by mouth may be prescribed for
severe cases.

The medicine that caused the problem should be stopped. Avoid using that
medicine or antiserum in the future.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The symptoms usually go away within a few days.

## Possible Complications

If you use the drug or antiserum that caused serum sickness again in the
future, your risk of having another similar reaction is high.

Complications include:

    * Inflammation of the blood vessels
    * Swelling of the face, arms, and legs (angioedema)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you received medicine or antiserum in the last 4 weeks
and have symptoms of serum sickness.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent the development of serum sickness.

People who have had serum sickness or drug allergy should avoid future use of
the antiserum or drug.

## Alternative Names

Drug allergy - serum sickness; Allergic reaction - serum sickness; Allergy -
serum sickness

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Frank MM, Hester CG. Immune complex-mediated diseases. In: Adkinson NF Jr,
Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 38.

Nowak-Wegrzyn A, Sicherer SH. Serum sickness. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 150.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

