Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000818.htm    
                                Description: Immunodeficiency disorders occur when the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immunodeficiency disorders

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000818.htm

# Immunodeficiency disorders

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Immunodeficiency disorders occur when the body's immune response is reduced or
absent.

## Causes

The immune system is made up of lymphoid tissue in the body, which includes:

    * Bone marrow
    * Lymph nodes
    * Parts of the spleen and gastrointestinal tract
    * Thymus
    * Tonsils 

Proteins and cells in the blood are also part of the immune system.

The immune system helps protect the body from harmful substances called
antigens. Examples of antigens include bacteria, viruses, toxins, cancer
cells, and foreign blood or tissues from another person or species.

![Immune response](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200095t.gif)Watch
this video about:Immune response

When the immune system detects an antigen, it responds by producing proteins
called antibodies that destroy the harmful substances. The immune system
response also involves a process called phagocytosis. During this process,
certain white blood cells swallow and destroy bacteria and other foreign
substances. Proteins called complement help with this process.

![Phagocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200096t.gif)Watch
this video about:Phagocytosis

Immunodeficiency disorders may affect any part of the immune system. Most
often, these conditions occur when special white blood cells called T or B
lymphocytes (or both) do not function normally or your body does not produce
enough antibodies.

Inherited immunodeficiency disorders that affect B cells include:

    * Hypogammaglobulinemia, which usually leads to respiratory and gastrointestinal infections
    * Agammaglobulinemia, which results in severe infections early in life, and is often deadly 

Inherited immunodeficiency disorders that affect T cells may cause repeated
Candida (yeast) infections. Inherited combined immunodeficiency affects both T
cells and B cells. It may be deadly within the first year of life if it isn't
treated early.

People are said to be immunosuppressed when they have an immunodeficiency
disorder due to medicines that weaken the immune system (such as
corticosteroids). Immunosuppression is also a common side effect of
chemotherapy given to treat cancer.

Acquired immunodeficiency may be a complication of diseases such as HIV/AIDS
and malnutrition (especially if the person does not eat enough protein). Many
cancers may also cause immunodeficiency.

People who have had their spleen removed have an acquired immunodeficiency,
and are at higher risk for infection by certain bacteria that the spleen would
normally help fight. People with diabetes are also at higher risk for certain
infections.

As you get older, the immune system becomes less effective. Immune system
tissues (especially lymphoid tissue such as the thymus) shrink, and the number
and activity of white blood cells drop.

The following conditions and diseases can lead to an immunodeficiency
disorder:

    * Ataxia-telangiectasia
    * Complement deficiencies
    * DiGeorge syndrome
    * Hypogammaglobulinemia
    * Job syndrome
    * Leukocyte adhesion defects
    * Agammaglobulinemia
    * Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome 

## Symptoms

Your health care provider might think you have an immunodeficiency disorder if
you have:

    * Infections that keep coming back or do not go away
    * Severe infection from bacteria or other germs that do not usually cause severe infection 

Other signs include:

    * Poor response to treatment for infections
    * Delayed or incomplete recovery from illness
    * Certain types of cancers (such as Kaposi sarcoma or non-Hodgkin lymphoma)
    * Certain infections (including some forms of pneumonia or repeated yeast infections) 

Symptoms depend on the disorder. For example, those with decreased levels of
IgA combined with low levels of certain IgG subclasses are likely to have
problems involving the lungs, sinuses, ears, throat, and digestive tract.

## Exams and Tests

Tests used to help diagnose an immunodeficiency disorder may include:

    * Complement levels in the blood, or other tests to measure substances released by the immune system
    * HIV test
    * Immunoglobulin levels in the blood
    * Protein electrophoresis (blood or urine)
    * T (thymus derived) lymphocyte count
    * White blood cell count

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to prevent infections and treat any disease and
infections that do develop.

If you have a weakened immune system, you should avoid contact with persons
who have infections or contagious disorders. You may have to avoid people who
have been vaccinated with live virus vaccines within the past 2 weeks.

If you develop an infection, your provider will treat you aggressively. This
may involve long-term use of antibiotic or antifungal drugs to prevent
infections from coming back.

Interferon is used to treat viral infections and some types of cancer. It is a
medicine that makes the immune system work better.

Persons with HIV/AIDS may take combinations of drugs to reduce the amount of
HIV in their immune systems and improve their immunity.

People who are going to have a planned spleen removal should be vaccinated 2
weeks before the surgery against bacteria such as _Streptococcus pneumonia_
and _Haemophilus influenzae._

Bone marrow transplants may be used to treat certain immunodeficiency
conditions.

Passive immunity (receiving antibodies produced by another person or animal)
may sometimes be recommended to prevent illness after you have been exposed to
certain bacteria or viruses.

People with low or absent levels of certain immunoglobulins may be helped with
intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), given through a vein.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some immunodeficiency disorders are mild and cause illness from time to time.
Others are severe and may be fatal. Immunosuppression caused by medicines
often goes away once the medicine is stopped.

## Possible Complications

Complications of immunodeficiency disorders may include:

    * Frequent or ongoing illness
    * Increased risk of certain cancers or tumors
    * Increased risk of infection 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you are on chemotherapy or corticosteroids
and you develop:

    * A fever of 100.5Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * A cough with shortness of breath
    * Stomach pain
    * Other new symptoms 

Go to the emergency room or call your local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have a stiff neck and headache with the fever.

Contact your provider if you have repeated yeast infections or oral thrush.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent inherited immunodeficiency disorders. If you
have a family history of immunodeficiency disorders, you might want to seek
genetic counseling.

Practicing safer sex and avoiding the sharing of body fluids may help prevent
HIV/AIDS. Ask your provider if a medicine called Truvada is right for you to
prevent HIV infection.

Good nutrition may prevent acquired immunodeficiency caused by malnutrition.

## Alternative Names

Immunosuppression; Immunodepressed - immunodeficiency; Immunosuppressed -
immunodeficiency; Hypogammaglobulinemia - immunodeficiency; Agammaglobulinemia
- immunodeficiency

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Abbas AK, Lichtman AH, Pillai S. Congenital and acquired immunodeficiencies.
In: Abbas AK, Lichtman AH, Pillai S, eds. _Cellular and Molecular Immunology_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 21.

Cunningham-Rundles C. Primary immunodeficiency diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 250.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

