Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003543.htm    
                                Description: The immunofixation blood test is used to identify proteins called immunoglobulins in blood. Too much of the same immunoglobulin is usually due to different types of blood cancer. Immunoglobulins are antibodiesÂ that    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immunofixation blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003543.htm

# Immunofixation blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The immunofixation blood test is used to identify proteins called
immunoglobulins in blood. Too much of the same immunoglobulin is usually due
to different types of blood cancer. Immunoglobulins are antibodiesÂ that help
your body fight infection.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often used to check the levels of antibodies associated with
certain cancers and other disorders.

## Normal Results

A normal (negative) result means that the blood sample had normal types of
immunoglobulins. The level ofÂ one immunoglobulin was not higher than any
other.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may be due to:

    * Amyloidosis (buildup of abnormal proteins in tissues and organs)
    * Leukemia or WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia (types of white blood cell cancers)
    * Lymphoma (cancer of the lymph tissue)
    * Monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS)
    * Multiple myeloma (a type of blood cancer)
    * Other cancers
    * Infection

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size fromÂ one person to another and fromÂ one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Serum immunofixation

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Aoyagi K, Ashihara Y, Kasahara Y. Immunoassays and immunochemistry. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![Multiple
Myeloma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleMyeloma_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Myeloma _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

