Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003333.htm    
                                Description: Antibody titer is a laboratory test that measures theÂ level of antibodies in aÂ blood sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antibody titer blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003333.htm

# Antibody titer blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Antibody titer is a laboratory test that measures theÂ level of antibodies in
aÂ blood sample.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The antibody level (titer) in the blood tells your health care provider
whether or not you have been exposed to an antigen, or something that the body
thinks is foreign. The body uses antibodies to attack and remove foreign
substances.

In some situations, your provider may check your antibody titer to see if you
had an infection in the past (for example, chickenpox) or to decide which
vaccines you need.

The antibody titer is also used to determine:

    * The strength of an immune response to the body's own tissue in diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and other autoimmune disorders
    * If you need a booster vaccine
    * Whether a vaccine you had before helped your immune system protect you against the specific disease
    * If you have had a recent or past infection, such as mononucleosis or viral hepatitis

## Normal Results

Normal values depend on the antibody being tested.

If the test is being done to look for antibodies against your own body
tissues, the normal value would be zero or negative. In some cases, a normal
level is below a specific number.

If the test is being done to see if a vaccine fully protects you against a
disease, the normal result depends on the specific value for that
immunization.

Negative antibody tests can help rule out certain infections.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results depend on which antibodies are being measured.

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Autoimmune disease
    * Failure of a vaccine to fully protect you against a certain disease
    * Immune deficiency
    * Viral infections

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins vary in size
from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Titer - antibodies; Serum antibodies

## Images

    * ![Antibody titer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9070t.jpg)Antibody titer

## References

Kroger AT, Pickering LK, Wharton M, Mawle A, Hinman AR, Orenstein WA.
Immunization. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 321.

McPherson RA, Riley RS, Massey HD. Laboratory evaluation of immunoglobulin
function and humoral immunity. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

## Review Date 4/17/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![Immunization](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Immunization2_thumb.jpg)Immunization
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

