Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001311.htm    
                                Description: Hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome is a rare, inherited disease. It causes problems with the skin, sinuses, lungs, bones, and teeth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001311.htm

# Hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome is a rare, inherited disease. It causes
problems with the skin, sinuses, lungs, bones, and teeth.

## Causes

Hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome is also called Job syndrome. It is named after
the biblical character Job, whose faithfulness was tested by an affliction
with draining skin sores and pustules. People with this condition have long-
term, severe skin infections.

The symptoms are most often present in childhood, but because the disease is
so rare, it often takes years before a correct diagnosis is made.

Recent research suggests that the disease is often caused by a genetic change
(mutation) that takes place in the _STAT3_gene on chromosome 17\. How this
gene abnormality causes the symptoms of the disease is not well understood.
However, people with the disease have aÂ higher-than-normal level of an
antibody called IgE.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Bone and tooth defects, including fractures and losing the baby teeth late
    * Eczema
    * Skin abscesses and infection
    * Repeated sinus infections
    * Repeated lung infections 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show:

    * Curving of the spine (kyphoscoliosis)
    * Osteomyelitis
    * Repeat sinus infections

Tests used to confirm the diagnosis include:

    * Absolute eosinophil count
    * CBC with blood differential
    * Serum globulin electrophoresis to look for high blood IgE level
    * Genetic testing of _STAT3_ geneÂ 

An eye exam may reveal signs of dry eye syndrome.

A chest x-ray may reveal lung abscesses.

Other tests that may be done:

    * CT scan of the chest 
    * Cultures of the infected site
    * Special blood tests to check parts of the immune system
    * X-ray of the bones
    * CT scan of the sinuses 

A scoring system that combines the different problems of Hyper IgE syndrome
may be used to help make the diagnosis.

## Treatment

There is no known cure for this condition. The goal of treatment is to control
the infections. Medicines include:

    * Antibiotics
    * Antifungal and antiviral medicines (when appropriate)

Surgery is sometimes needed to drain abscesses.

Gamma globulin given through a vein (IV) may help build up the immune system
if you have severe infections.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hyper IgE syndrome is a lifelong chronic condition. Each new infection
requires treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Repeated infections
    * Sepsis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of Hyper IgE syndrome.

## Prevention

There is no proven way to prevent Hyper IgE syndrome. Good general hygiene is
helpful in preventing skin infections.

Some providers may recommend preventive antibiotics for people who develop
many infections, especially with _Staphylococcus aureus_. This treatment does
not change the condition, but it can lessen its complications.

## Alternative Names

Job syndrome; Hyper IgE syndrome

## References

Chong H, Green T, Larkin A. Allergy and immunology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire
SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

Holland SM, Gallin JI. Evaluation of the patient with suspected
immunodeficiency. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 12.

Hsu AP, Davis J, Puck JM, Holland SM, Freeman AF. Autosomal dominant hyper IgE
syndrome. _Gene Reviews_. 2012;6. PMID: 20301786
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301786. Updated June 7, 2012. Accessed July 30,
2019.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

