Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000068.htm    
                                Description: Histiocytosis is a general name for a group of disorders or &quot;syndromes&quot; that involve an abnormal increase in the number of specialized white blood cells that are called histiocytes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Histiocytosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000068.htm

# Histiocytosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Histiocytosis is a general name for a group of disorders or "syndromes" that
involve an abnormal increase in the number of specialized white blood cells
that are called histiocytes.

Recently, new knowledge about this family of diseases has led experts to
develop a new classification. Five categories have been proposed:

    * L group -- includes Langerhans cell histiocytosis and Erdheim-Chester disease
    * C group -- includes non- Langerhans cell histiocytosis that involves the skin
    * M group -- includes malignant histiocytosis
    * R group -- includes Rosai-Dorfman disease
    * H Group -- includes hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 

This article focuses only on the L group, which includes Langerhans cell
histiocytosis and Erdheim-Chester disease.

## Causes

There has been debate as to whether Langerhans cell histiocytosis and Erdheim-
Chester disease are inflammatory, immune disorders, or cancer-like conditions.
Recently, through the use of genomics scientists have found that these forms
of histiocytosis show gene changes (mutations) in early white blood cells.
This lead to abnormal behavior in the cells. The abnormal cells then increase
in various parts of body including the bones, skin, lungs, and other areas.

Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a rare disorder that can affect people of all
ages. The highest rate is among children ages 5 to 10. Some forms of the
disorder are genetic, which means they are inherited.

Erdheim-Chester disease is a rare form of histiocytosis affecting mainly
adults that involves multiple parts of the body.

## Symptoms

Both Langerhans cell histiocytosis and Erdheim-Chester disease can affect the
whole body (systemic disorder).

Symptoms can vary between children and adults, but they may have some of the
same symptoms. Tumors in weight-bearing bones, such as the legs or spine, may
cause the bones to fracture without an obvious reason.

Symptoms in children may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bone pain
    * Delayed puberty
    * Dizziness
    * Ear drainage that continues long-term
    * Eyes that appear to stick out more and more
    * Irritability
    * Failure to thrive
    * Fever
    * Frequent urination
    * Headache
    * Jaundice
    * Limping
    * Mental decline
    * Rash
    * Seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp
    * Seizures
    * Short stature
    * Swollen lymph glands
    * Thirst
    * Vomiting
    * Weight loss 

Note: Children over 5 years old often have only bone involvement.

Symptoms in adults may include:

    * Bone pain
    * Chest pain
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling
    * Increased amount of urine
    * Rash
    * Shortness of breath
    * Thirst and increased drinking of fluids
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

There are no specific blood tests for Langerhans cell histiocytosis or
Erdheim-Chester disease. The tumors produce a "punched-out" look on a bone
x-ray. Specific tests vary, depending on the age of the person.

Tests for children may include:

    * Biopsy of skin to check for Langerhans cells
    * Bone marrow biopsy to check for Langerhans cells
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * X-rays of all the bones in the body to find out how many bones are affected
    * Test for a gene mutation in BRAF V600E 

Tests for adults may also include:

    * Biopsy of any tumor or mass
    * Imaging of the body, including x-ray, CT scan, MRI, or PET scan
    * Bronchoscopy with biopsy
    * Pulmonary function tests
    * Blood and tissue testing for gene mutations including BRAF V600E. This testing may need to be done at a specialized center. 

Langerhans cell histiocytosis is sometimes linked to cancer. CT scans and
biopsy should be done to rule out possible cancer.

## Treatment

People with Langerhans cell histiocytosis that involves only a single area
(such as bone or skin) may be treated with local surgery. However, they will
need to be followed closely to look for signs that the disease has spread.

People with widespread Langerhans cell histiocytosis or Erdheim-Chester
disease require medicines to reduce symptoms and control the spread of the
disease. Recent studies show that nearly all adults with widespread
histiocytosis have gene mutations in the tumors, which appear to cause the
disorder. Medications that inhibit these gene mutations, such as vemurafenib
are currently available. Other similar drugs are also in development.

Langerhans cell histiocytosis and Erdheim-Chester disease are very rare
disorders. Therefore there is limited information about the best course of
treatment. People with these conditions may want to take part in ongoing
clinical trials designed to identify new treatments.

Other medicines or treatments may be used, depending on the outlook
(prognosis) and response to the starting medicines. Such treatments may
include:

    * Interferon alpha
    * Cyclophosphamide or vinblastine
    * Etoposide
    * Methotrexate
    * Vemurafenib, if the BRAF V600E mutation is found
    * Stem cell transplantation 

Other treatments may include:

    * Antibiotics to fight infections
    * Breathing support (with a breathing machine)
    * Hormone replacement therapy
    * Physical therapy
    * Special shampoos for scalp problems
    * Supportive care (also called comfort care) to relieve symptoms

In addition, people with these conditions who smoke are encouraged to stop
since smoking may worsen the response to treatment.

## Support Groups

Histiocytosis Association www.histio.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Langerhans cell histiocytosis and Erdheim-Chester disease can affect many
organs and can lead to death.

About one half of those with pulmonary histiocytosis improve, while others
have permanent loss of lung function over time.

In very young people, the outlook depends on the specific histiocytosis and
how severe it is. Some children can live a normal life with minimal disease
involvement, while others do poorly. Young children, especially infants, are
more likely to have body-wide symptoms that lead to death.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Diffuse interstitial pulmonary fibrosisÂ (deep lung tissues that become inflamed and then damaged)Â 
    * Spontaneous collapsed lung

Children may also develop:

    * Anemia caused by spreading of the tumors to the bone marrow
    * Diabetes insipidusÂ (a rare form of diabetes)Â 
    * Lung problems that lead to lung failure
    * Problems with the pituitary gland that lead to growth failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child has symptoms of this
disorder. Go to the emergency room if shortness of breath or chest pain
develops.

## Prevention

Avoid smoking. Quitting smoking can improve the outcome in people with
Langerhans cell histiocytosis that affects the lungs.

There is no known prevention of this disease.

## Alternative Names

Langerhans cell histiocytosis; Erdheim-Chester disease

## Images

    * ![Eosinophilic granuloma - X-ray of the skull](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1448t.jpg)Eosinophilic granuloma - x-ray of the skull
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Diamond EL, Durham BH, Haroche J, et al. Diverse and targetable kinase
alterations drive histiocytic neoplasms. _Cancer Discov_. 2016; 6(2):154-165.
PMID: 26566875. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26566875.

Diamond EL, Dagna L, Hyman DM, et al. Consensus guidelines for the diagnosis
and clinical management of Erdheim-Chester disease. _Blood_. 2014;124
(4):483-492. PMID: 24850756Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24850756.

Emile J-F, Abla O, Fraitag S, et al. Revised classification of histiocytoses
and neoplasms of the macrophage-dendritic cell lineages. _Blood_.
2016;127(22):2672-2681. PMID: 26966089Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26966089.

Haupt R, Minkov M, Astigarraga I, et al. Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH):
guidelines for diagnosis, clinical work-up, and treatment for patients till
the age of 18 years. _Pediatr Blood Cancer_. 2013;60(2):175-184. PMID:
23109216 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23109216.

Hyman DM, Puzanov I, Subbiah V, et al. Vemurafenib in multiple nonmelanoma
cancers with BRAF V600 mutations. _N Engl J Med_. 2015;373(8):726-736. PMID:
26287849 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26287849.

Milne P, Bigley V, Bacon CM, et al. Hematopoietic origin of Langerhans cell
histiocytosis and Erdheim-Chester disease in adults. _Blood_. 2017;
130(2):167-175. PMID: 28512190 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28512190.

Ozkaya N, Rosenblum MK, Durham BH, et al. The histopathology of Erdheim-
Chester disease: a comprehensive review of a molecularly characterized cohort.
_Mod Pathol_. 2018 31(4):581-597. PMID: 29192649
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29192649.

Zinn DJ, Chakraborty R, Allen CE. Langerhans cell histiocytosis: emerging
insights and clinical implications. _Oncology_. 2016;30(2):122-132, 139. PMID:
26888790Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26888790.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

