Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003545.htm    
                                Description: Quantitative nephelometry is a lab test to quickly and accurately measure levels of certain proteins called immunoglobulins in the blood. Immunoglobulins are antibodies that help fight infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Quantitative nephelometry test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003545.htm

# Quantitative nephelometry test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Quantitative nephelometry is a lab test to quickly and accurately measure
levels of certain proteins called immunoglobulins in the blood.
Immunoglobulins are antibodies that help fight infection.

This test specifically measures the immunoglobulins IgM, IgG, and IgA.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test provides a rapid and accurate measurement of the amounts of the
immunoglobulins IgM, IgG, and IgA.

## Normal Results

Normal results for the three immunoglobulins are:

    * IgG: 650 to 1600 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or 6.5 to 16.0 grams per liter (g/L)
    * IgM: 54 to 300 mg/dL, or 540 to 3000 mg/L
    * IgA: 40 to 350 mg/dL, or 400 to 3500 mg/L

The examples above show the common measurements for these test results. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your specific test results. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increased level of IgG may be due to:

    * Chronic infection or inflammation
    * Hyperimmunization (higher than normal number of specific antibodies)
    * IgG multiple myeloma (a type of blood cancer)
    * Liver disease
    * Rheumatoid arthritis

Decreased levels of IgG may be due to:

    * Agammaglobulinemia (very low levels of immunoglobulins, a very rare disorder)
    * Leukemia (blood cancer)
    * Multiple myeloma (bone marrow cancer)
    * Preeclampsia (high blood pressure during pregnancy)
    * Treatment with certain chemotherapy drugs 

Increased levels of IgM may be due to:

    * Mononucleosis
    * Lymphoma (cancer of the lymph tissue)
    * WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia (cancer of the white blood cells)
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Rheumatoid arthritis 
    * Infection

Decreased levels of IgM may be due to:

    * Agammaglobulinemia (very rare)
    * Leukemia
    * Multiple myeloma 

Increased levels of IgA may be due to:

    * Chronic infections, especially of the gastrointestinal tract
    * Inflammatory bowel disease, such as Crohn disease
    * Multiple myeloma 

Decreased levels of IgA may be due to:

    * Agammaglobulinemia (very rare)
    * Hereditary IgA deficiency
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Gut disease that leads to protein loss

Other tests are needed to confirm or diagnose any of the conditions above.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Quantitative immunoglobulins

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Abraham R, Barnidge DR, Lanza IR. Assessment of proteins of the immune system.
In: Rich RR, Fleisher TA, Shearer WT, Schroeder HW, Frew AJ, Weyand CM, eds.
_Clinical Immunology: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 93.

McPherson RA. Specific proteins. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![Infectious
Mononucleosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousMononucleosis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Mononucleosis _Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

