Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000821.htm    
                                Description: The immune response is how your body recognizes and defends itself against bacteria, viruses, and substances that appear foreign and harmful.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immune response

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000821.htm

# Immune response

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The immune response is how your body recognizes and defends itself against
bacteria, viruses, and substances that appear foreign and harmful.

## Information

The immune system protects the body from possibly harmful substances by
recognizing and responding to antigens. Antigens are substances (usually
proteins) on the surface of cells, viruses, fungi, or bacteria. Nonliving
substances such as toxins, chemicals, drugs, and foreign particles (such as a
splinter) can also be antigens. The immune system recognizes and destroys, or
tries to destroy, substances that contain antigens.

Your body's cells have proteins that are antigens. These include a group of
antigens called HLA antigens. Your immune system learns to see these antigens
as normal and usually does not react against them.

INNATE IMMUNITY

Innate, or nonspecific, immunity is the defense system with which you were
born. It protects you against all antigens. Innate immunity involves barriers
that keep harmful materials from entering your body. These barriers form the
first line of defense in the immune response. Examples of innate immunity
include:

    * Cough reflex
    * Enzymes in tears and skin oils
    * Mucus, which traps bacteria and small particles
    * Skin
    * Stomach acid 

Innate immunity also comes in a protein chemical form, called innate humoral
immunity. Examples include the body's complement system and substances called
interferon and interleukin-1 (which causes fever).

If an antigen gets past these barriers, it is attacked and destroyed by other
parts of the immune system.

ACQUIRED IMMUNITY

Acquired immunity is immunity that develops with exposure to various antigens.
Your immune system builds a defense against that specific antigen.

PASSIVE IMMUNITY

Passive immunity is due to antibodies that are produced in a body other than
your own. Infants have passive immunity because they are born with antibodies
that are transferred through the placenta from their mother. These antibodies
disappear between ages 6 and 12 months.

Passive immunization may also be due to injection of antiserum, which contains
antibodies that are formed by another person or animal. It provides immediate
protection against an antigen, but does not provide long-lasting protection.
Immune serum globulin (given for hepatitis exposure) and tetanus antitoxin are
examples of passive immunization.

BLOOD COMPONENTS

The immune system includes certain types of white blood cells. It also
includes chemicals and proteins in the blood, such as antibodies, complement
proteins, and interferon. Some of these directly attack foreign substances in
the body, and others work together to help the immune system cells.

Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. There are B and T type
lymphocytes.

    * B lymphocytes become cells that produce antibodies. Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen.
    * T lymphocytes attack antigens directly and help control the immune response. They also release chemicals, known as cytokines, which control the entire immune response. 

As lymphocytes develop, they normally learn to tell the difference between
your own body tissues and substances that are not normally found in your body.
Once B cells and T cells are formed, a few of those cells will multiply and
provide "memory" for your immune system. This allows your immune system to
respond faster and more efficiently the next time you are exposed to the same
antigen. In many cases, it will prevent you from getting sick. For example, a
person who has had chickenpox or has been immunized against chickenpox is
immune from getting chickenpox again.

![Immune response](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200095t.gif)Watch
this video about:Immune response

INFLAMMATION

The inflammatory response (inflammation) occurs when tissues are injured by
bacteria, trauma, toxins, heat, or any other cause. The damaged cells release
chemicals including histamine, bradykinin, and prostaglandins. These chemicals
cause blood vessels to leak fluid into the tissues, causing swelling. This
helps isolate the foreign substance from further contact with body tissues.

The chemicals also attract white blood cells called phagocytes that "eat"
germs and dead or damaged cells. This process is called phagocytosis.
Phagocytes eventually die. Pus is formed from a collection of dead tissue,
dead bacteria, and live and dead phagocytes.

![Phagocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200096t.gif)Watch
this video about:Phagocytosis

IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS AND ALLERGIES

Immune system disorders occur when the immune response is directed against
body tissue, is excessive, or is lacking. Allergies involve an immune response
to a substance that most people's bodies perceive as harmless.

IMMUNIZATION

Vaccination (immunization) is a way to trigger the immune response. Small
doses of an antigen, such as dead or weakened live viruses, are given to
activate immune system "memory" (activated B cells and sensitized T cells).
Memory allows your body to react quickly and efficiently to future exposures.

![Vaccines](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200097t.gif)Watch this
video about:Vaccines

COMPLICATIONS DUE TO AN ALTERED IMMUNE RESPONSE

An efficient immune response protects against many diseases and disorders. An
inefficient immune response allows diseases to develop. Too much, too little,
or the wrong immune response causes immune system disorders. An overactive
immune response can lead to the development of autoimmune diseases, in which
antibodies form against the body's own tissues.

Complications from altered immune responses include:

    * Allergy or hypersensitivity
    * Anaphylaxis, a life-threatening allergic reaction
    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Graft versus host disease, a complication of a bone marrow transplant
    * Immunodeficiency disorders
    * Serum sickness
    * Transplant rejection 

## Alternative Names

Innate immunity; Humoral immunity; Cellular immunity; Immunity; Inflammatory
response; Acquired (adaptive) immunity

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
    * When your baby or infant has a fever

## Images

    * ![Immune system structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8932t.jpg)Immune system structures
    * ![Phagocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9478t.jpg)Phagocytosis

## References

Abbas AK, Lichtman AH, Pillai S. Properties and overview of immune responses.
In: Abbas AK, Lichtman AH, Pillai S, eds. _Cellular and Molecular Immunology_.
9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

Craft J. The adaptive immune system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

Crow MK. The innate immune system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 45.

Firestein GS. Mechanisms of inflammation and tissue repair. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

