Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003334.htm    
                                Description: The latex agglutination test is a laboratory method to check for certain antibodies or antigens in a variety of body fluids including saliva, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, or blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Latex agglutination test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003334.htm

# Latex agglutination test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The latex agglutination test is a laboratory method to check for certain
antibodies or antigens in a variety of body fluids including saliva, urine,
cerebrospinal fluid, or blood.

## How the Test is Performed

The test depends on what type of sample is needed.

    * Saliva
    * Urine
    * Blood
    * Cerebrospinal fluid (lumbar puncture)

The sample is sent to a lab, where it is mixed with latex beads coated with a
specific antibody or antigen. If the suspected substance is present, the latex
beads will clump together (agglutinate).

Latex agglutination results take about 15 minutes to an hour.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to limit certain foods or medicines
shortly before the test. Follow instructions on how to prepare for the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is a quick way to determine the absence or presence of an antigen or
antibody. Your provider will base any treatment decisions, at least in part,
on the results of this test.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your providerÂ
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If there is an antigen-antibody match, agglutination will occur.

## Risks

The risk level depends on the type of test.

URINE AND SALIVA TESTS

There is no risk with the urine or saliva test.

BLOOD TEST

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

CEREBROSPINAL FLUID TEST

Risks of lumbar puncture include:

    * Bleeding into the spinal canal or around the brain (subdural hematomas)
    * Discomfort during the test
    * Headache after the test that can last a few hours or days. If headaches last more than a few days (especially when you sit, stand or walk) you might have a "CSF-leak". You should talk to yourÂ doctor if this occurs.
    * Hypersensitivity (allergic) reaction to the anesthetic
    * Infection introduced by the needle going through the skin

## References

Aoyagi K, Ashihara Y, Kasahara Y. Immunoassays and immunochemistry. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 8/16/2019

Updated by: Frank A. Greco, MD, PhD, Director, Biophysical Laboratory, Edith
Nourse Rogers Memorial Hospital, Bedford, MA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![Infectious
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousDiseases_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

