Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001312.htm    
                                Description: Chediak-Higashi syndrome is a rare disease of the immune and nervous systems. It involves pale-colored hair, eyes, and skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chediak-Higashi syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001312.htm

# Chediak-Higashi syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chediak-Higashi syndrome is a rare disease of the immune and nervous systems.
It involves pale-colored hair, eyes, and skin.

## Causes

Chediak-Higashi syndrome is passed down through families (inherited). It is an
autosomal recessive disease. This means that both parents are carriers of a
non-working copy of the gene. Each parent must pass their non-working gene to
the child for them to show symptoms of the disease.

Defects have been found in the _LYST_ (also called _CHS1_ ) gene. The primary
defect in this disease is found in certain substances normally present in skin
cells and certain white blood cells.

## Symptoms

Children with this condition may have:

    * Silver hair, light-colored eyes (albinism)
    * Increased infections in the lungs, skin, and mucous membranes
    * Jerky eye movements (nystagmus)

Infection of affected children with certain viruses, such as Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV), can cause a life-threatening illness resembling the blood cancer
lymphoma.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Decreased vision
    * Intellectual disability
    * Muscle weakness
    * Nerve problems in the limbs (peripheral neuropathy)
    * Nosebleeds or easy bruising
    * Numbness
    * Tremor
    * Seizures
    * Sensitivity to bright light (photophobia)
    * Unsteady walking (ataxia)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show signs of
a swollen spleen or liver or jaundice.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count, including white blood cell count
    * Blood platelet count
    * Blood culture and smear
    * Brain MRI or CT
    * EEG
    * EMG
    * Nerve conduction tests

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for Chediak-Higashi syndrome. Bone marrow
transplantsÂ performed early in the disease appear to have been successful in
several patients.

Antibiotics are used to treat infections. Antiviral drugs, such as acyclovir,
and chemotherapy drugs are often used in the accelerated phase of the
disease.Â Blood and platelet transfusions are given as needed.Â Surgery may be
needed to drain abscesses in some cases.

## Support Groups

National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) -- rarediseases.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Death often occurs in the first 10 years of life, from long-term (chronic)
infections or accelerated disease that results in lymphoma-like illness.
However, some affected children have survived longer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Frequent infections involving certain types of bacteria
    * Lymphoma-like cancerÂ triggered by viral infections such as EBV
    * Early death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a family history of this disorder and you are
planning to have children.

Talk to your provider if your child shows symptoms of Chediak-Higashi
syndrome.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended before becoming pregnant if you have a
family history of Chediak-Higashi.

## References

Coates TD. Disorders of phagocyte function. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 156.

Dinauer MC, Coates TD. Disorders of phagocyte function. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 50.

Toro C, Nicoli ER, Malicdan MC, Adams DR, Introne WJ. Chediak-Higashi
syndrome. _Gene Reviews_. 2015. PMID: 20301751
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301751. Updated July 5, 2018. Accessed July 30,
2019.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

