Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001239.htm    
                                Description: Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is an inherited disorder in which certain immune system cells do not function properly. This leads to repeated and severe infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic granulomatous disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001239.htm

# Chronic granulomatous disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is an inherited disorder in which certain
immune system cells do not function properly. This leads to repeated and
severe infections.

## Causes

In CGD, immune system cells called phagocytes are unable to kill some types of
bacteria and fungi. This disorder leads to long-term (chronic) and repeated
(recurrent) infections. The condition is often discovered very early in
childhood. Milder forms may be diagnosed during the teenage years, or even in
adulthood.

Risk factors include a family history of recurrent or chronic infections.

About half of CGD cases are passed down through families as a sex-linked
recessive trait. This means that boys are more likely to get the disorder than
girls. The defective gene is carried on the X chromosome. Boys have 1 X
chromosome and 1 Y chromosome. If a boy has an X chromosome with the defective
gene, he may inherit this condition. Girls have 2 X chromosomes. If a girl has
1 X chromosome with the defective gene, the other X chromosome may have a
working gene to make up for it. A girl has to inherit the defective X gene
from each parent in order to have the disease.

## Symptoms

CGD can cause many types of skin infections that are hard to treat, including:

    * Blisters or sores on the face (impetigo)
    * Eczema
    * Growths filled with pusÂ (abscesses)
    * Pus-filled lumps in the skin (boils)

CGD can also cause:

    * Persistent diarrhea
    * Swollen lymph nodes in the neck
    * Lung infections, such as pneumonia or lung abscess

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do an examination and may find:

    * Liver swelling
    * Spleen swelling
    * Swollen lymph nodes

There may be signs of a bone infection, which may affect many bones.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Bone scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Flow cytometry tests to help confirm the disease
    * Genetic testing to confirm the diagnosis
    * Test of white blood cell function
    * Tissue biopsy

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to treat the disease, and may also be used to prevent
infections. A medicine called interferon-gamma may also help reduce the number
of severe infections. Surgery may be needed to treat some abscesses.

The only cure for CGD is a bone marrow or stem cell transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Long-term antibiotic treatments may help reduce infections, but early death
can occur from repeated lung infections.

## Possible Complications

CGD may cause these complications:

    * Bone damage and infections
    * Chronic infections in the nose
    * Pneumonia that keeps coming back and is hard to cure
    * Lung damage
    * Skin damage
    * Swollen lymph nodes that stay swollen, occur often, or form abscesses that need surgery to drain them

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you or your child has this condition and you suspect pneumonia or another
infection, call your provider right away.

Tell your provider if a lung, skin, or other infection does not respond to
treatment.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended if you are planning to have children and you
have a family history of this disease. Advances in genetic screening and
increasing use of chorionic villus sampling (a test that may be done during a
woman's 10th to 12th week of pregnancy)Â have made early detection of CGD
possible. However, these practicesÂ are not yet widespread or fully accepted.

## Alternative Names

CGD; Fatal granulomatosis of childhood; Chronic granulomatous disease of
childhood; Progressive septic granulomatosis; Phagocyte deficiency - chronic
granulomatous disease

## References

Glogauer M. Disorders of phagocyte function. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 169.

Holland SM, Uzel G. Phagocyte deficiencies. In: Rich RR, Fleisher TA, Shearer
WT, Schroeder JR. HW, Frew AJ, Weyand CM, eds. _Clinical Immunology:
Principles and Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 22.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

