Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000073.htm    
                                Description: The immune system includes specialized white blood cells, called lymphocytes that adapt themselves to fight specific foreign invaders. These cells develop into two groups in the bone marrow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Immune response

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000073.htm

# Immune response

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200095_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200095_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The immune system includes specialized white blood cells, called lymphocytes
that adapt themselves to fight specific foreign invaders. These cells develop
into two groups in the bone marrow.

From the bone marrow, one group of lymphocytes migrates to a gland called the
thymus and become T lymphocytes or T cells. Within the thymus, the T cells
mature under the influence of several hormones.

The T cells mature into several different types, including helper, killer and
suppressor cells. T cells are responsible for cell-mediated immunity. This
type of immunity becomes deficient in persons with HIV, the virus that causes
AIDS, because HIV attacks and destroys helper T cells.

The other group of lymphocytes, B lymphocytes or B cells, mature and develop
within the bone marrow itself. In that process, they achieve the ability to
recognize specific foreign invaders. From the bone marrow, B cells migrate
through the body fluids to the lymph nodes, spleen and blood. B lymphocytes
provide the body with humoral immunity as they circulate in the fluids in
search of specific foreign invaders to destroy.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Immune System and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

