Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001307.htm    
                                Description: Agammaglobulinemia is an inherited disorder in which a person has very low levels of protective immune system proteins called immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins are a type of antibody. Low levels of these    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Agammaglobulinemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001307.htm

# Agammaglobulinemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Agammaglobulinemia is an inherited disorder in which a person has very low
levels of protective immune system proteins called immunoglobulins.
Immunoglobulins are a type of antibody. Low levels of these antibodies make
you more likely to get infections.

## Causes

This is a rare disorder that mainly affects males. It is caused by a gene
defect that blocks the growth of normal, mature immune cells called B
lymphocytes.

As a result, the body makes very little (if any) immunoglobulins.
Immunoglobulins play a major role in the immune response, which protects
against illness and infection.

People with this disorder develop infections again and again. Common
infections include ones that are due to bacteria such as _Haemophilus
influenzae_ , pneumococci ( _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ ), and staphylococci.
Common sites of infection include:

    * Gastrointestinal tract
    * Joints
    * Lungs
    * Skin
    * Upper respiratory tract 

Agammaglobulinemia is inherited, which means other people in your family may
have the condition.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include frequent episodes of:

    * BronchitisÂ (airway infection) 
    * Chronic diarrhea
    * Conjunctivitis (eye infection) 
    * Otitis media (middle ear infection) 
    * Pneumonia (lung infection) 
    * SinusitisÂ (sinus infection)
    * Skin infections
    * Upper respiratory tract infections

Infections typically appear in the first 4 years of life.

Other symptoms include:

    * Bronchiectasis (a disease in which the small air sacs in the lungs become damaged and enlarged)
    * AsthmaÂ without a known cause

## Exams and Tests

The disorder is confirmed by blood tests that measure levels of
immunoglobulins.

Tests include:

    * Flow cytometry to measure circulating B lymphocytes
    * Immunoelectrophoresis - serum
    * Quantitative immunoglobulins \- IgG, IgA, IgM (usually measured by nephelometry) 

## Treatment

Treatment involves taking steps to reduce the number and severity of
infections. Antibiotics are often needed to treat bacterial infections.

Immunoglobulins are given through a vein or by injection to boost the immune
system.

A bone marrow transplant may be considered.

## Support Groups

Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on agammaglobulinemia:

    * Immune Deficiency Foundation -- primaryimmune.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/agammaglobulinemia
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/x-linked-agammaglobulinemia

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment with immunoglobulins has greatly improved the health of those who
have this disorder.

Without treatment, most severe infections are deadly.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result include:

    * Arthritis
    * Chronic sinus or pulmonary disease
    * Eczema
    * Intestinal malabsorption syndromes

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if:

    * You or your child has experienced frequent infections.
    * You have a family history of agammaglobulinemia or another immunodeficiency disorder and you are planning to have children. Ask the provider about genetic counseling.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling should be offered to prospective parents with a family
history of agammaglobulinemia or other immunodeficiency disorders.

## Alternative Names

Bruton's agammaglobulinemia; X-linked agammaglobulinemia; Immunosuppression -
agammaglobulinemia; Immunodepressed - agammaglobulinemia; Immunosuppressed -
agammaglobulinemia

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Buckley RH. Primary defects of antibody production. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 124.

Cunningham-Rundles C. Primary immunodeficiency diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 250.

Pai SY, Notarangelo LD. Congenital disorders of lymphocyte function. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

