Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000996.htm    
                                Description: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a group of disorders of the motor neurons (motor cells). These disorders are passed down through families (inherited) and can appear at any stage of life. The disorder    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal muscular atrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000996.htm

# Spinal muscular atrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a group of disorders of the motor neurons
(motor cells). These disorders are passed down through families (inherited)
and can appear at any stage of life. The disorder leads to muscle weakness and
atrophy.

## Causes

SMA is a collection of different motor nerve diseases. Grouped together, it is
the second leading cause of hereditary neuromuscular disease, after Duchenne
muscular dystrophy.

Most of the time, a person must get the defective gene from both parents to be
affected. The most severe form is SMA type I, also called Werdnig-Hoffman
disease. Infants with SMA type II have less severe symptoms during early
infancy, but they become weaker with time. SMA type III is a less severe form
of the disease.

In rare cases, SMA begins in adulthood. This is the mildest form of the
disease.

A family history of SMA in an immediate family member (such as brother or
sister)Â is a risk factor for all types of the disorder.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of SMA are:

    * Infants with SMA type I are born with very little muscle tone, weak muscles, and feeding and breathing problems. 
    * With SMA type II, symptoms may not appear until age 6 months to 2 years. 
    * Type III SMA is a milder disease that starts in childhood or adolescence and slowly gets worse. 
    * Type IV is even milder, with weakness starting in adulthood.

Often, weakness is firstÂ felt in the shoulderÂ and leg muscles. Weakness gets
worse over time and eventually becomes severe.

Symptoms in an infant:

    * Breathing difficulty, leading to a lack of oxygen
    * Feeding difficulty (food may go into the windpipe instead of the stomach)
    * Floppy infant (poor muscle tone)
    * Lack of head control
    * LittleÂ movement
    * Weakness that gets worse

Symptoms in a child:

    * Frequent, increasingly severe respiratory infections
    * Nasal speech
    * Posture that gets worse

With SMA, the nerves that control feeling (sensory nerves) are not affected.
So, a person with the disease can feel things normally.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take a careful history and perform a
brain/nervous system (neurologic) examination to find out if there is:

    * A family history of neuromuscular disease
    * Floppy (flaccid) muscles
    * No deep tendon reflexes
    * TwitchesÂ of the tongue muscle

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * AldolaseÂ blood test
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Creatine phosphate kinase blood test
    * DNA testing to confirm diagnosis
    * Electromyography (EMG)
    * Lactate/pyruvate
    * MRI of the spine
    * Muscle biopsy
    * Nerve conduction
    * Amino acid blood tests  

    * Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test

## Treatment

There is no treatment to cure the weakness caused by the disease. Supportive
care is important. Breathing complications are common in the more severe forms
of SMA. To help with breathing, a device or machine called a ventilator may be
needed.

People with SMA also need to be watched for choking. This is because the
muscles that control swallowing are weak.

Physical therapy is important to prevent contractions of muscles and tendons
and abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis). Bracing may be needed.
Surgery may be needed to correct skeletal deformities, such as scoliosis.

Promising new drugs are being tested for SMA. New approaches such as gene
therapy and stem cell therapy are also being investigated.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with SMA type I rarely live longer than 2 to 3 years because of
respiratory problems and infections. Survival time with type II is longer, but
the disease kills most of those who are affected while they are still
children.

Children with type III disease may survive into early adulthood. But, people
with all forms of the disease have weakness and debility that gets worse over
time. Adults who develop SMA often have a normal life expectancy.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from SMA include:

    * Aspiration (food and fluids get into the lungs, causing pneumonia)
    * Contractions of muscles and tendons
    * Heart failure
    * Scoliosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child:

    * Appears weak
    * Develops any other symptoms of SMA
    * Has difficulty feeding

Breathing difficulty can rapidly become an emergency condition.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for people with a family history of SMA who
want to have children.

## Alternative Names

Werdnig-Hoffmann disease; Kugelberg-Welander disease

## Images

    * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
    * ![Scoliosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1114t.jpg)Scoliosis

## References

Darras BT, Markowitz JA, Monani UR, De Vivo DC. Spinal muscular atrophies. In:
Darras BT, Jones HR, Ryan MM, De Vivo DC, eds. _Neuromuscular Disorders of
Infancy, Childhood, and Adolescence_. 2nd ed. Walthman, MA: Elsevier Academic
Press; 2015:chap 8.

Fearon C, Murray B, Mitsumoto H. Disorders of upper and lower motor neurons.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 98.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Spinal Muscular
Atrophy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalMuscularAtrophy_thumb.jpg)Spinal
Muscular Atrophy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

