Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001474.htm    
                                Description: A boil is an infection that affects groups of hair follicles and nearby skin tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Boils

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001474.htm

# Boils

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A boil is an infection that affects groups of hair follicles and nearby skin
tissue.

Related conditions include folliculitis, an inflammation of one or more hair
follicles, and carbunculosis, a skin infection that often involves a group of
hair follicles.Â

## Causes

Boils are very common. They are most often caused by the bacteria
_Staphylococcus aureus_. They can also be caused by other types of bacteria or
fungi found on the skin's surface. Damage to the hair follicle allows the
infection to grow deeper into the follicle and the tissues under it.

Boils may occur in the hair follicles anywhere on the body. They are most
common on the face, neck, armpit, buttocks, and thighs. You may have one or
many boils. The condition may occur only once or it can be a long-lasting
(chronic) problem.

## Symptoms

A boil may begin as tender, pinkish-red, and swollen, on a firm area of the
skin. Over time, it will feel like a water-filled balloon or cyst.

Pain gets worse as it fills with pus and dead tissue. Pain lessens when the
boil drains. A boil may drain on its own. More often, the boil needs to be
opened to drain.

The main symptoms of a boil include:

    * A bump about the size of a pea, but may be as large as a golf ball
    * White or yellow center (pustules)
    * Spread to other skin areas or joining with other boils
    * Quick growth
    * Weeping, oozing, or crusting 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * General ill-feeling
    * Itching before the boil develops
    * Skin redness around the boil

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can usually diagnose a boil based on how it looks. A
sample of cells from the boil may be sent to the lab for a culture to look for
staphylococcus or other bacteria.

## Treatment

Boils may heal on their own after a period of itching and mild pain. More
often, they become more painful as pus builds up.

Boils usually need to open and drain in order to heal. This most often happens
within 2 weeks. You should:

    * Put warm, moist, compresses on the boil several times a day to speed draining and healing.
    * Never squeeze a boil or try to cut it open at home. This can spread the infection.
    * Continue to put warm, wet, compresses on the area after the boil opens. 

You may need to have surgery to drain deep or large boils. Get treatment from
your provider if:

    * A boil lasts longer than 2 weeks.
    * A boil comes back.
    * You have a boil on your spine or the middle of your face.
    * You have a fever or other symptoms with the boil.
    * The boil causes pain or discomfort. 

It is important to keep a boil clean. To do this:

    * Clean boils and change their dressing often.
    * Wash your hands well before and after touching a boil.
    * DO NOT reuse or share washcloths or towels. Wash clothing, washcloths, towels, and sheets or other items that have touched infected areas in hot water.
    * Throw out used dressings in a sealed bag so that fluid from the boil does not touch anything else. 

Your provider may give you antibiotics to take by mouth or a shot, if the boil
is very bad or comes back.

Antibacterial soaps and creams cannot help much once a boil has formed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people have repeated boil infections and are unable to prevent them.

Boils in areas like the ear canal or nose can be very painful.

Boils that form close together may expand and join, causing a condition called
carbunculosis.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Abscess of the skin, spinal cord, brain, kidneys, or other organ
    * Brain infection
    * Heart infection
    * Bone infection
    * Infection of the blood or tissues (sepsis)
    * Spinal cord infection
    * Spread of infection to other parts of the body or skin surfaces
    * Permanent scarring

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if boils:

    * Appear on your face or spine
    * Come back
    * Do not heal with home treatment within 1 week
    * Occur along with a fever, red streaks coming out from the sore, a large build-up of fluid in the area, or other symptoms of infection
    * Cause pain or discomfort

## Prevention

The following may help prevent the spread of infection:

    * Antibacterial soaps
    * Antiseptic (germ-killing) washes
    * Keeping cleanÂ (such as thorough hand washing)

## Alternative Names

Furuncle

## Images

    * ![Hair follicle anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9703t.jpg)Hair follicle anatomy

## References

Habif TP. Bacterial infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A
Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Pallin DJ. Skin infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 129.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Staphylococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StaphylococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Staphylococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

