Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001352.htm    
                                Description: Scalded skin syndrome is a skin infection caused by staphylococcus bacteria in which the skin becomes damaged and sheds.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scalded skin syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001352.htm

# Scalded skin syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scalded skin syndrome is a skin infection caused by staphylococcus bacteria in
which the skin becomes damaged and sheds.

## Causes

Scalded skin syndrome (SSS) is caused by infection with certain strains of
staphylococcus bacteria. The bacteria produce a toxin that causes the skin
damage. The damage creates blisters, as if the skin were scalded. These
blisters can occur at areas of the skin away from the initial site.

SSS is found most commonly in infants and children under the age of 5.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Blisters
    * Fever
    * Large areas of skin peel or fall away (exfoliation or desquamation)
    * Painful skin
    * Redness of the skin (erythema), which spreads to cover most of the body
    * Skin slips off with gentle pressure, leaving wet red areas (Nikolsky sign)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and look at the skin.
The exam may show that the skin slips off when it is rubbed (positive Nikolsky
sign).

Tests may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Cultures of the skin, throat and nose, and blood
    * Electrolyte test
    * Skin biopsy (in rare cases) 

## Treatment

Antibiotics are given by mouth or through a vein (intravenously; IV) to help
fight the infection. IV fluids are also given to prevent dehydration. Much of
the body's fluid is lost through open skin.

Moist compresses to the skin may improve comfort. You can apply a moisturizing
ointment to keep the skin moist. Healing begins about 10 days after treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A full recovery is expected.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Abnormal level of fluids in the body causing dehydration or electrolyte imbalance
    * Poor temperature control (in young infants)
    * Severe bloodstream infection (septicemia)
    * Spread to deeper skin infection (cellulitis) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if you have symptoms of this
disorder.

## Prevention

The disorder may not be preventable. Treating any staphylococcus infection
quickly can help.

## Alternative Names

Ritter disease; Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome (SSS)

## References

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Bacterial, mycobacterial, and protozoal infections of
the skin. In: Paller AS, Mancini AJ, eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric
Dermatology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Pallin DJ. Skin infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 129.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Staphylococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StaphylococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Staphylococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

