Link: https://medlineplus.gov/skininfections.html    
                                Description: Skin infections can be caused by bacteria, virus, fungus, or parasites. Impetigo is a type among kids. Shingles is a reactivation of chickenpox virus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Skin Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/skininfections.html

#  Skin Infections

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are skin infections?

Your skin is your body's largest organ. It has many different functions,
including covering and protecting your body. It helps keep germs out. But
sometimes the germs can cause a skin infection. This often happens when there
is a break, cut, or wound on your skin. It can also happen when your immune
system is weakened, because of another disease or a medical treatment.

Some skin infections cover a small area on the top of your skin. Other
infections can go deep into your skin or spread to a larger area.

### What causes skin infections?

Skin infections are caused by different kinds of germs. For example,

    * Bacteria cause cellulitis, impetigo, and staphylococcal (staph) infections
    * Viruses cause shingles, warts, and herpes simplex
    * Fungi cause athlete's foot and yeast infections
    * Parasites cause body lice, head lice, and scabies

### Who is at risk for skin infections?

You are at a higher risk for a skin infection if you

    * Have poor circulation
    * Have diabetes
    * Are older
    * Have an immune system disease, such as HIV/AIDS
    * Have a weakened immune system because of chemotherapy or other medicines that suppress your immune system
    * Have to stay in one position for a long time, such as if you are sick and have to stay in bed for a long time or you are paralyzed
    * Are malnourished
    * Have excessive skinfolds, which can happen if you have obesity

### What are the symptoms of skin infections?

The symptoms depend on the type of infection. Some symptoms that are common to
many skin infections include rashes, swelling, redness, pain, pus, and
itching.

### How are skin infections diagnosed?

To diagnose a skin infection, health care providers will do a physical exam
and ask about your symptoms. You may have lab tests, such as a skin culture.
This is a test to identify what type of infection you have, using a sample
from your skin. Your provider may take the sample by swabbing or scraping your
skin, or removing a small piece of skin (biopsy). Sometimes providers use
other tests, such as blood tests.

### How are skin infections treated?

The treatment depends on the type of infection and how serious it is. Some
infections will go away on their own. When you do need treatment, it may
include a cream or lotion to put on the skin. Other possible treatments
include medicines and a procedure to drain pus.

## Start Here

    * Bacterial Skin Infections (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Fungal Skin Infections (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Skin Rashes and Other Problems (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Fungal Tests (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Skin Biopsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Skin Rashes and Other Problems (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Wood's Lamp Examination (Logical Images)

## Related Issues

    * Skin Complications (American Diabetes Association)
    * Swimming Pools and Molluscum Contagiosum (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Blastomycosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Boils (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Boils and Carbuncles (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Cutaneous Larva Migrans (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Erysipelas (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Erythema Nodosum (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Intertrigo (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Molluscum Contagiosum (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Molluscum Contagiosum: Overview (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Necrotizing Fasciitis: A Rare Disease, Especially for the Healthy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Onchocerciasis (River Blindness) FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Sporotrichosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Tinea Versicolor (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * Tinea Versicolor (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Boils (Furunculosis) (Logical Images)
    * Erythema Nodosum (Logical Images)
    * Erythrasma (Logical Images)
    * Intertrigo (Logical Images)
    * Molluscum Contagiosum (Logical Images)
    * Tinea Versicolor (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Molluscum Contagiosum ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Skin Diseases, Infectious ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Treatment of herpes labialis by photodynamic therapy: Study protocol clinical trial...
    * Article: Infestations, Bites, and Insect Repellents.
    * Article: The potential of live attenuated vaccines against Cutaneous Leishmaniasis.
    * Skin Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Dermatology
    * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Molluscum Contagiosum (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
    * Molluscum Contagiosum (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Cuts, Scratches, and Scrapes (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Molluscum Contagiosum (Children's Hospital Boston) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Blastomycosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Boils (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Candida infection of the skin (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Carbuncle (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Donovanosis (granuloma inguinale) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ecthyma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Erysipelas (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Molluscum contagiosum (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Necrotizing soft tissue infection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Actinomycosis
    * Blastomycosis
    * Boils
    * Candida infection of the skin
    * Carbuncle
    * Donovanosis (granuloma inguinale)
    * Ecthyma
    * Erysipelas
    * Erythema multiforme
    * Erythema nodosum
    * Erythrasma
    * Gram stain of skin lesion
    * Intertrigo
    * Molluscum contagiosum
    * Necrotizing soft tissue infection
    * Nikolsky sign
    * Paronychia
    * Scalded skin syndrome
    * Skin culture
    * Skin lesion aspiration
    * Skin lesion biopsy
    * Skin lesion KOH exam
    * Skin lesion of blastomycosis
    * Sporotrichosis
    * Swimming pool granuloma
    * Tinea versicolor
    * Wood's lamp examination

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Bacterial Infections
    * Fungal Infections
    * Gangrene
    * Skin Conditions
    * Viral Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Skin Infections is the National
Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Skin Infections_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 2 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

