Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003761.htm    
                                Description: The skin lesion KOH exam is a test to diagnose a fungal infection of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin lesion KOH exam

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003761.htm

# Skin lesion KOH exam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The skin lesion KOH exam is a test to diagnose a fungal infection of the skin.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider scrapes the problem area of your skin using a needle
or scalpel blade. The scrapings from the skin are placed on a microscope
slide. Liquid containing the chemical potassium hydroxide (KOH) is added. The
slide is then examined under the microscope. KOH helps dissolve much of the
cellular material. This makes it easier to see if there is any fungus.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a scratching sensation when the provider scrapes your skin.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to diagnose a fungal infection of the skin.

## Normal Results

No fungus is present.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Fungus is present. The fungus may be related to ringworm, athlete's foot, jock
itch, or another fungal infection.

If the results are uncertain, a skin biopsy may need to be done.

## Risks

There is a small risk of bleeding or infection from scraping the skin.

## Alternative Names

Potassium hydroxide examination of skin lesion

## Images

    * ![Tinea \(ringworm\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8957t.jpg)Tinea (ringworm)

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Potassium hydroxide preparation (KOH wet mount) -
specimen. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:898-899.

Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL. Diagnostic techniques. In: Fitzpatrick JE,
High WA, Kyle WL, eds. _Urgent Care Dermatology: Symptom-Based Diagnosis_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Athlete's
Foot](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Athlete'sFoot_thumb.jpg)Athlete's Foot
_Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Tinea
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TineaInfections2_thumb.jpg)Tinea
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

