Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000618.htm    
                                Description: Erysipelas is a type of skin infection.Â It affects the outermost layer of the skin and the local lymph nodes.Â     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erysipelas

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000618.htm

# Erysipelas

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Erysipelas is a type of skin infection.Â It affects the outermost layer of the
skin and the local lymph nodes.Â

## Causes

Erysipelas is usually caused by group A streptococcus bacteria. The condition
may affect both children and adults.

Some conditions that can lead to erysipelas are:

    * A cut in the skin
    * Problems with drainage through the veins or lymph system
    * Skin sores (ulcers) 

## Symptoms

The infection occurs on the legs or arms most of the time. It may also occur
on the face and trunk.

Symptoms of erysipelas may include:

    * Fever and chillsÂ 
    * Skin sore with a sharp raised border. As the infection spreads, the skin is painful, very red, swollen, and warm. Blisters on the skin then form. 

## Exams and Tests

Erysipelas is diagnosed based on how the skin looks. A biopsy of the skin is
usually not needed.

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to get rid of the infection. If the infection is severe,
antibiotics may need to be given through an intravenous (IV) line.

People who have repeated episodes of erysipelas may need long-term
antibiotics.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the outcome is good. It may take a few weeks for the skin to
return to normal. Peeling is common as the skin heals.

## Possible Complications

Sometimes the bacteria that cause erysipelas may travel to the blood. This
results in a condition called bacteremia. When this happens, the infection may
spread to the heart valves, joints, and bones.

Other complications include:

    * Return of infection
    * Septic shock (a dangerous body-wide infection) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have a skin sore and other symptoms of
erysipelas.

## Prevention

Keep your skin healthy by avoiding dry skin and preventing cuts and scrapes.
This may reduce the risk for erysipelas.

## Alternative Names

Strep infection - erysipelas; Streptococcal infection - erysipelas; Cellulitis
- erysipelas

## Images

    * ![Erysipelas on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2418t.jpg)Erysipelas on the cheek
    * ![Erysipelas on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2561t.jpg)Erysipelas on the face

## References

Bryant AE, Stevens DL. _Streptococcus pyogenes_. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 199.

Patterson JW. Bacterial and rickettsial infections. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2016:chap 23.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cellulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cellulitis2_thumb.jpg)Cellulitis
_Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

