Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001470.htm    
                                Description: Erythrasma is a long-term skin infection caused by bacteria. It commonly occurs in skin folds.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erythrasma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001470.htm

# Erythrasma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Erythrasma is a long-term skin infection caused by bacteria. It commonly
occurs in skin folds.

## Causes

Erythrasma is caused by the bacteria _Corynebacterium minutissimum_.

Erythrasma is more common in warm climates. You are more likely to develop
this condition if you are overweight, older, or have diabetes.

## Symptoms

The main symptoms are reddish-brown slightly scaly patches with sharp borders.
They may itch slightly. The patches occur in moist areas such as the groin,
armpit, and skin folds.

The patches often look similar to other fungal infections, such as ringworm.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will check your skin and ask about the symptoms.

These tests can help diagnose erythrasma:

    * Lab tests of scrapings from the skin patch
    * Examination under a special lamp called a Wood lamp
    * A skin biopsy

## Treatment

Your provider may suggest the following:

    * Gentle scrubbing of the skin patches with antibacterial soap
    * Antibiotic medicine applied to the skin
    * Antibiotics taken by mouth
    * Laser treatment

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition should go away after treatment.Â

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of erythrasma.

## Prevention

You may be able to reduce the risk of erythrasma if you:

    * Bathe or shower often
    * Keep your skin dry
    * Wear clean clothes that absorb moisture
    * Avoid very hot or damp conditions
    * Maintain a healthy body weight 

## Images

    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Barkham MC. Erythrasma. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson I,
eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 74.

Habif TP. Superficial fungal infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

