Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000825.htm    
                                Description: A carbuncle is a skin infection that often involves a group of hair follicles. The infected material forms a lump, which occurs deep in the skin and often contains pus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carbuncle

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000825.htm

# Carbuncle

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A carbuncle is a skin infection that often involves a group of hair follicles.
The infected material forms a lump, which occurs deep in the skin and often
contains pus.

When a person has many carbuncles, the condition is called carbunculosis.

## Causes

Most carbuncles are caused by the bacteria _Staphylococcus aureus_ ( _S
aureus_ ).

A carbuncle is a cluster of several skin boils (furuncles). The infected mass
is filled with fluid, pus, and dead tissue. Fluid may drain out of the
carbuncle, but sometimes the mass is so deep that it cannot drain on its own.

Carbuncles can develop anywhere. But they are most common on the back and the
nape of the neck. Men get carbuncles more often than women.

The bacteria that cause this condition spread easily. So, family members may
develop carbuncles at the same time. Often, the cause of a carbuncle cannot be
determined.

You are more likely to get a carbuncle if you have:

    * Friction from clothing or shaving
    * Poor hygiene
    * Poor overall health 

People with diabetes, dermatitis, and a weakened immune system are more likely
to develop staph infections that can cause carbuncles.

Staph bacteria are sometimes found in the nose or around the genitals.
Carbuncles can recur when antibiotics are not able to treat the bacteria in
those areas.

## Symptoms

A carbuncle is a swollen lump or mass under the skin. It may be the size of a
pea or as large as a golf ball. The carbuncle may be red and irritated and
might hurt when you touch it.

A carbuncle usually:

    * Develops over several days
    * Have a white or yellow center (contains pus)
    * Weep, ooze, or crust
    * Spread to other skin areas 

Sometimes, other symptoms may occur. These may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * General discomfort or sick feeling
    * Skin itching before the carbuncle develops 

## Exams and Tests

The health care providerÂ will look at your skin. The diagnosis is based on
what the skin looks like. A sample of the pus may be sent to a lab to
determine the bacteria causing the infection (bacterial culture).Â The test
result helps yourÂ provider determine the appropriate treatment.

## Treatment

Carbuncles usually must drain before they will heal. This most often occurs on
its own in less than 2 weeks.

Placing a warm moist cloth on the carbuncle helps it to drain, which speeds
healing. Apply a clean, warm moist cloth several times each day. Never squeeze
a boil or try to cut it open at home, because this can spread the infection
and make it worse.

You need to seek treatment if the carbuncle:

    * Lasts longer than 2 weeks
    * Returns frequently
    * Is located on the spine or the middle of the face
    * Occurs with a fever or other systemic symptoms 

Treatment helps reduce complications related to an infection. Your provider
may prescribe:

    * Antibacterial soaps
    * Antibiotics applied to the skin or taken by mouth
    * Antibiotic ointment to treat the inside of the nose or around the anus

Deep or large carbuncles may need to be drained by your provider.

Proper hygiene is very important to prevent the spread of infection.

    * Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water after touching a carbuncle.
    * Do not re-use or share washcloths or towels. This can cause the infection to spread.
    * Clothing, washcloths, towels, and sheets or other items that contact infected areas should be washed often.
    * Bandages should be changed often and thrown away in a bag that can be tightly closed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Carbuncles may heal on their own. Others usually respond well to treatment.

## Possible Complications

Rare complications of carbuncles include:

    * Abscess of the brain, skin, spinal cord, or organs such as the kidneys
    * Endocarditis
    * Osteomyelitis
    * Permanent scarring of the skin
    * Sepsis
    * Spread of infection to other areas 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * A carbuncle does not heal with home treatment within 2 weeks
    * Carbuncles come back often
    * A carbuncle is located on the face or on the skin over the spine
    * You have a fever, red streaks running from the sore, a lot of swelling around the carbuncle, or worsening pain 

## Prevention

Good general health and hygiene may help prevent some staph skin infections.Â
These infections are contagious, so care must be taken to avoid spreading the
bacteria to other people.

If you get carbuncles often, your provider may give you antibiotics to prevent
them.

If you are a carrier of _S aureus_ , your provider may give you antibiotics to
prevent future infection.

## Alternative Names

Skin infection - staphylococcal; Infection - skin - staph; Staph skin
infection; Carbunculosis; Boil

## References

Ambrose G, Berlin D. Incision and drainage. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 37.

Habif TP. Bacterial infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A
Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Sommer LL, Reboli AC, Heymann WR. Bacterial diseases. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2018:chap 74.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Staphylococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StaphylococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Staphylococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

