Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000864.htm    
                                Description: Ecthyma is a skin infection. It is similar to impetigo, but occurs deep inside the skin. For this reason, ecthyma is often called deep impetigo.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ecthyma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000864.htm

# Ecthyma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ecthyma is a skin infection. It is similar to impetigo, but occurs deep inside
the skin. For this reason, ecthyma is often called deep impetigo.

## Causes

Ecthyma is most often caused by the streptococcus bacteria. Sometimes,
staphylococcus bacteria cause this skin infection on its own or in combination
with streptococcus.

The infection may start in skin that has been injured due to a scratch, rash,
or insect bite. The infection often develops on the legs. People with diabetes
or a weakened immune system are more prone to ecthyma.

## Symptoms

Main symptom of ecthyma is a small blister with a red border that may be
filled with pus. The blister is similar to that seen with impetigo, but the
infection spreads much deeper into the skin.

After the blister goes away, a crusty ulcer appears.

## Exams and Tests

YourÂ healthÂ care providerÂ can usually diagnose this condition simply by
looking at your skin. In rare cases, the fluid inside the blisterÂ is sent to
a lab for closer examination, or a skin biopsyÂ needs toÂ be done.

## Treatment

YourÂ provider will usually prescribe antibiotics that you need to take by
mouth (oral antibiotics). Very early cases may be treated with antibiotics
that you apply to the affected area (topical antibiotics).Â Serious
infectionsÂ may need antibiotics given through a vein (intravenous
antibiotics).

Placing a warm, wet cloth over the area can help remove ulcer crusts. YourÂ
provider may recommend antiseptic soap or peroxide washes to speed recovery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Ecthyma can sometimes result in scarring.

## Possible Complications

This condition may lead to:

    * Spread of infection to other parts of the body
    * Permanent skin damage with scarring

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of ecthyma.

## Prevention

Carefully clean the skin after an injury, such as a bite or scratch.Â Do not
scratch orÂ pick at scabs and sores.

## Alternative Names

Streptococcus - ecthyma; Strep - ecthyma; Staphylococcus - ecthyma; Staph -
ecthyma; Skin infection - ecthyma

## Images

    * ![Ecthyma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17161t.jpg)Ecthyma

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Bacterial infections.
In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews'
Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology._ 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 14.

Pasternack MS, Swartz MN. Cellulitis, necrotizing fasciitis, and subcutaneous
tissue infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 95.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Impetigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImpetigoII_thumb.png)Impetigo _Read
more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

