Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001465.htm    
                                Description: Tinea versicolor is a long-term (chronic) fungal infection of the outer layer of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tinea versicolor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001465.htm

# Tinea versicolor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tinea versicolor is a long-term (chronic) fungal infection of the outer layer
of the skin.

## Causes

Tinea versicolor is fairly common. It is caused by a type of fungus called
malassezia. This fungus is normally found on human skin. It only causes a
problem in certain settings.

The condition is most common in adolescents and young adults. It typically
occurs in hot climates. It does not spread person to person.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is patches of discolored skin that:

    * Have sharp borders (edges) and fine scales
    * Are often dark reddish to tan in color
    * Are found on the back, underarms, upper arms, chest, and neck
    * Are found on the forehead (in children)
    * Do not darken in the sun so may appear lighter than the surrounding healthy skin 

African Americans may have a loss of skin color or an increase in skin color.

Other symptoms include:

    * Increased sweating
    * Mild itching
    * Mild swelling 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine a skin scraping under a microscope to
look for the fungus. A skin biopsy may also be performed with a special stain
called PAS to identify fungus and yeast.

## Treatment

The condition is treated with antifungal medicine that is either applied to
the skin or taken by mouth.

Applying over-the-counter dandruff shampoo containing selenium sulfide or
ketoconazole to the skin for 10 minutes each day in the shower is another
treatment option.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Tinea versicolor is easy to treat. Changes in skin colorÂ may last for months.
The condition may come back during warm weather.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of tinea versicolor.

## Prevention

Avoid excessive heat or sweating if you have had this condition in the past.
You can also use anti-dandruff shampoo on your skinÂ every month to help
prevent the problem.

Â

## Alternative Names

Pityriasis versicolor

## Images

    * ![Tinea versicolor - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1890t.jpg)Tinea versicolor - close-up
    * ![Tinea versicolor - shoulders](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1895t.jpg)Tinea versicolor - shoulders
    * ![Tinea versicolor - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2478t.jpg)Tinea versicolor - close-up
    * ![Tinea versicolor on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2479t.jpg)Tinea versicolor on the back
    * ![Tinea versicolor - back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3096t.jpg)Tinea versicolor - back

## References

Chang MW. Disorders of hyperpigmentation. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
67.

Patterson JW. Mycoses and algal infections. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's
Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 25.

Sutton DA, Patterson TF. _Malassezia_ species. In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer
M, eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious Diseases._ 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 247.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

