Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003762.htm    
                                Description: A skin or nail culture is a laboratory test to look for and identify germs that cause problems with the skin or nails.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin or nail culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003762.htm

# Skin or nail culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin or nail culture is a laboratory test to look for and identify germs
that cause problems with the skin or nails.

It is called a mucosal culture if the sample involves the mucous membranes.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider may use a cotton swab to collect a sample from an
open skin rash or skin sore.

A sample of skin may need to be taken. This is called a skin biopsy. Before
the skin sample is removed, you will likely receive a shot (injection) of
numbing medicine to prevent pain.

A small sample of a fingernail or toenail may be taken. The sample is sent to
a lab. There, it is placed in a special dish (culture). It is then watched to
see if bacteria, viruses, or fungi grow. It may take up to 3 weeks to get
results of a nail culture. Further tests can be done to identify the specific
germ that is causing your problem. This can help your provider determine the
best treatment.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no preparation needed for this test. If a skin or mucosal sample is
needed, your provider will tell you how to prepare.

## How the Test will Feel

If a skin sample is taken, you may feel a sting when the shot of numbing
medicine is given.

For a nail sample, the provider scrapes the affected area of the nail. There
is usually no pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to diagnose the cause of:

    * A bacteria or fungus infection of the skin, finger, or toenail 
    * A skin rash or sore that appears to be infected
    * A skin ulcer that is not healing

## Normal Results

A normal result means no disease-causing germs are seen in the culture.

Some germs normally live on the skin. These are not a sign of infection and
are considered a normal finding.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means bacteria, fungus, or virus is present. This may be a
sign of infection.

Common skin infections caused by bacteria include:

    * Impetigo
    * Diabetes foot ulcers

Common skin infections caused by fungus include:

    * Athlete's foot
    * Nail infections
    * Scalp infections

## Risks

Risks include slight bleeding or infection in the area where the skin sample
was removed.

## Alternative Names

Mucosal culture; Culture - skin; Culture - mucosal; Nail culture; Culture -
fingernail; Fingernail culture

## Images

    * ![Yeast and mold](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19348t.jpg)Yeast and mold

## References

Habif TP. Dermatologic surgical procedures. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Iwen PC. Mycotic diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

