Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003451.htm    
                                Description: Skin lesion aspiration is the withdrawal of fluid from a skin lesion (sore).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin lesion aspiration

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003451.htm

# Skin lesion aspiration

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Skin lesion aspiration is the withdrawal of fluid from a skin lesion (sore).

## How the Test Is Performed

The health care provider inserts a needle into the skin sore or skin abscess,
which may contain fluid or pus. Fluid from the sore or abscess is withdrawn.
The fluid may be examined under a microscope. A sample of the fluid may also
be sent to a lab. There, it is put in a lab dish (called a culture medium) and
watched for growth of bacteria, virus or fungi.

If the sore is deep, the provider may inject numbing medicine (anesthetic)
into the skin before inserting the needle.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You do not need to prepare for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a pricking sensation as the needle enters the skin.

In many cases, removing the fluid will lessen pressure within the skin sore
and ease pain.

## Why the Test Is Performed

This test is used to find the cause of a fluid-filled skin lesion. It can be
used to diagnose skin infections or cancers.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be a sign of infection caused by bacteria, fungi, or
viruses. Cancer cells may also be seen.

## Risks

There is a small risk of bleeding, mild pain, or infection.

## Images

    * ![Skin lesion aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9893t.jpg)Skin lesion aspiration

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specific - specimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:199-202.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Dermatologic therapy and procedures. In: Marks JG, Miller
JJ, eds. _Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

