Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000865.htm    
                                Description: A skin lesion of blastomycosis is a symptom of an infection with the fungus Blastomyces dermatitidis. The skin becomes infected as the fungus spreads throughout the body. Another form of blastomycosis    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin lesion of blastomycosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000865.htm

# Skin lesion of blastomycosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skin lesion of blastomycosis is a symptom of an infection with the fungus
_Blastomyces dermatitidis._ The skin becomes infected as the fungus spreads
throughout the body. Another form of blastomycosis is only on the skin and
usually gets better on its own with time. This article deals with the more
widespread form of the infection.

## Causes

Blastomycosis is a rare fungal infection. It is mostÂ often foundÂ in:

    * Africa
    * Canada, around the Great Lakes
    * South central and north centralÂ United States
    * India
    * Israel
    * Saudi Arabia 

A person gets infected by breathing in particles of the fungus that are found
in moist soil, especially where there is rotting vegetation. People with
immune system disorders are at higher risk for this infection, though healthy
people can also develop this disease.

The fungus enters the body through the lungs and infects them. In some people,
the fungus then spreads (disseminates) to other areas of the body. The
infection may affect the skin, bones and joints,Â genitals and urinaryÂ tract,
and other systems. Skin symptoms are a sign of widespread (disseminated)
blastomycosis.

## Symptoms

In many people, skin symptoms develop when the infection spreads beyond their
lungs.

Papules, pustules, or nodules are most frequently found on exposed body areas.

    * They may look like warts or ulcers.
    * They are usually painless.
    * They may vary from gray to violet in color.

The pustules may:

    * Form ulcers
    * Bleed easily
    * Occur in the nose or mouth

Over time, these skin lesions can lead to scarring and loss of skin color
(pigment).

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your skin and ask about symptoms.

The infection is diagnosed by identifying the fungus in a culture taken from a
skin lesion. This usually requires a skin biopsy.

## Treatment

This infection is treated with antifungal drugs such as amphotericin B,
itraconazole, ketoconazole, or fluconazole. Either oral or intravenous
(directly in the vein) drugs are used, depending on the drug and stage of the
disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the form of blastomycosis and on your immune
system. People with a suppressed immune system may need long-term treatment to
prevent symptoms from coming back.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Abscesses (pockets of pus)
    * Another (secondary) skin infection caused by bacteria
    * Complications related to medicines (for instance, amphotericin B can have severe side effects)
    * Spontaneously draining nodules 
    * Severe body-wide infection and death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Some of the skin problems caused by blastomycosis can be similar to skin
problems caused by other illnesses. Tell your provider if you develop any
worrisome skin problems.

## References

Bradsher RW. Blastomycosis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 266.

Kauffman CA. Blastomycosis. In: Goldman L, Shafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 334.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

