Link: https://medlineplus.gov/inhalationinjuries.html    
                                Description: There are a variety of substances you can inhale that can cause internal injuries, such as smoke and toxic fumes. Discover the symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Inhalation Injuries

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/inhalationinjuries.html

#  Inhalation Injuries

## Summary

Inhalation injuries are acute injuries to your respiratory system and lungs.
They can happen if you breathe in toxic substances, such as smoke (from
fires), chemicals, particle pollution, and gases. Inhalation injuries can also
be caused by extreme heat; these are a type of thermal injuries. Over half of
deaths from fires are due to inhalation injuries.

Symptoms of inhalation injuries can depend on what you breathed in. But they
often include

    * Coughing and phlegm
    * A scratchy throat
    * Irritated sinuses
    * Shortness of breath
    * Chest pain or tightness
    * Headaches
    * Stinging eyes
    * A runny nose

If you have a chronic heart or lung problem, an inhalation injury can make it
worse.

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider may use a scope to look at your
airways and check for damage. Other possible tests include imaging tests of
the lungs, blood tests, and lung function tests.

If you have an inhalation injury, your health care provider will make sure
that your airway is not blocked. Treatment is with oxygen therapy, and in some
cases, medicines. Some patients need to use a ventilator to breathe. Most
people get better, but some people have permanent lung or breathing problems.
Smokers and people who had a severe injury are at a greater risk of having
permanent problems.

You can take steps to try to prevent inhalation injuries:

    * At home, practice fire safety, which includes preventing fires and having a plan in case there is a fire
    * If there is smoke from a wildfire nearby or lots of particulate pollution in the air, try to limit your time outdoors. Keep your indoor air as clean as possible, by keeping windows closed and using an air filter. If you have asthma, another lung disease, or heart disease, follow your health care provider's advice about your medicines and respiratory management plan.
    * If you are working with chemicals or gases, handle them safely and use protective equipment

## Learn More

    * Consequences of Fire: The Killing Fumes (National Fire Protection Association)
    * Health Effects of Ozone and Particle Pollution (American Lung Association)
    * How to Properly Put On, Take Off a Disposable Respirator (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Inhalation Injuries (Burn Institute) \- PDF
    * Lung problems and volcanic smog (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Particle Pollution (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Wildfires: Information for Parents (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Burns, Inhalation ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Smoke Inhalation Injury ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: ECMO Therapy in a Patient with Extensive Burns, Inhalation Injury, and...
    * Article: Prevalence and prognostic impact of inhalation injury among burn patients: A...
    * Article: Impact of diagnostic bronchoscopy in burned adults with suspected inhalation injury.
    * Inhalation Injuries -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Inhalation Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InhalationInjuries.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 16 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

