Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001338.htm    
                                Description: Sporotrichosis is a long-term (chronic) skin infection that is caused by a fungus called Sporothrix schenckii.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sporotrichosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001338.htm

# Sporotrichosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sporotrichosis is a long-term (chronic) skin infection that is caused by a
fungus called _Sporothrix schenckii_.

## Causes

_Sporothrix schenckii_ is found in plants. Infection commonly occurs when the
skin is broken while handling plant material such as rosebushes, briars, or
dirt that contains a lot of mulch.

Sporotrichosis can be a job-related disease for people who work with plants,
such as farmers, horticulturists, rose gardeners, and plant nursery workers.
Widespread (disseminated) sporotrichosis can develop in people with a weakened
immune system when they inhale dust filled with spores of the fungus.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include a small, painless, red lump that develops at the site of
infection.Â As time passes,Â this lump willÂ turn into an ulcerÂ (sore). The
lump may develop up to 3 months after an injury.

Most sores are on the hands and forearmsÂ because these areas are commonly
injured when handling plants.

The fungus follows the channels in your body's lymph system. Small ulcers
appearÂ as lines on the skin as the infectionÂ moves up an arm or leg. These
sores do not heal unless they are treated, and they mayÂ last for years. TheÂ
sores may sometimes drain small amounts of pus.

Body-wide (systemic) sporotrichosis can cause lung and breathing problems,
bone infection, arthritis, and infection of the nervous system.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. The
examination will showÂ the typical sores caused by the fungus. Sometimes, a
small sample of affected tissue is removed, examined under a microscope, andÂ
tested in a lab to identify the fungus.

## Treatment

The skin infection is often treated with an antifungal medicine called
itraconazole. It is taken by mouth and continued for 2 to 4 weeks after the
skinÂ sores have cleared. You may have to take the medicine for 3 to 6 months.
A medicine called terbinafine may be used instead of itraconazole.

Infections that have spread or affect the entire body are often treated with
amphotericin B, or sometimes itraconazole. Therapy for systemic disease can
last up to 12 months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, full recovery is likely. Disseminated sporotrichosis is more
difficult to treat and requires several months of therapy. Disseminated
sporotrichosis can be life threatening for people with aÂ weakened immune
system.

## Possible Complications

People with a healthy immune system may have:

    * Discomfort
    * Secondary skin infections (such as staph or strep)

People with a weakened immune system may develop:

    * Arthritis
    * Bone infection
    * Complications from medicines -- amphotericin B can have serious side effects
    * Lung and breathing problems (such as pneumonia)
    * Brain infection (meningitis)
    * Widespread (disseminated) disease

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if you develop persistent skin lumps or
skin ulcers that do not go away. Tell your provider if you know that you were
exposed to plants from gardening.

## Prevention

People with a weakened immune system should try to reduce risk for skin
injury. Wearing thick gloves while gardening can help.

## Images

    * ![Sporotrichosis on the hand and arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2472t.jpg)Sporotrichosis on the hand and arm
    * ![Sporotrichosis on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2655t.jpg)Sporotrichosis on the arm
    * ![Sporotrichosis on the forearm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2657t.jpg)Sporotrichosis on the forearm
    * ![Fungus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9485t.jpg)Fungus

## References

Kauffman CA. Sporotrichosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 337.

Rex JH, Okhuysen PC. Sporothrix schenckii. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 261.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

