Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000102.htm    
                                Description: Blastomycosis is an infection caused by breathing in the Blastomyces dermatitidis fungus. The fungus is found in decaying wood and soil.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blastomycosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000102.htm

# Blastomycosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blastomycosis is an infection caused by breathing in the _Blastomyces
dermatitidis_ fungus. The fungus is found in decaying wood and soil.

## Causes

You can get blastomycosis by contact with moist soil, most commonly where
there is rotting wood and leaves. The fungus enters the body through the
lungs, where the infection starts. The fungus can then spread to other parts
of the body. The disease may affect the skin, bones and joints, and other
areas.

Blastomycosis is rare. It is found in the central and southeastern United
States, and in Canada, India, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and Africa.

The key risk factor for the disease is contact with infected soil. It most
often affects people with weakened immune systems, such as those with HIV/AIDS
or who have had an organ transplant. It can also infect healthy people. Men
are more likely to be affected than women.

## Symptoms

Lung infection may not cause any symptoms. Symptoms may be seen if the
infection spreads. Symptoms may include:

    * Joint pain
    * Chest pain
    * Cough (may produce brown or bloody mucus)
    * Fatigue
    * Fever and night sweats
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Muscle pain
    * Unintentional weight loss

Most people develop skin symptoms when the infection spreads. You may get
papules, pustules, or nodules on exposed body areas.

The pustules:

    * May look like warts or ulcers
    * Are usually painless
    * Vary in color from gray to violet
    * May appear in the nose and mouth
    * Bleed easily and form ulcers 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination. You'll be asked
about your medical history and symptoms.

If the provider suspects you have a fungal infection, diagnosis can be
confirmed by these tests:

    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Skin biopsy
    * Sputum culture and examination
    * Urinary antigen detection
    * Tissue biopsy
    * Urine culture

## Treatment

You may not need to take medicine for a mild blastomycosis infection that
stays in the lungs. The provider may recommend the following antifungal
medicines when the disease is severe or spreads outside of the lungs.

    * Fluconazole
    * Itraconazole
    * Ketoconazole

Amphotericin B may be used for severe infections.

Follow up regularly with your provider to make sure the infection does not
return.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with minor skin sores (lesions) and mild lung infections usually
recover completely. The infection can lead to death if not treated.

## Possible Complications

Complications of blastomycosis may include:

    * Large sores with pus (abscesses)
    * Skin sores can lead to scarring and loss of skin color (pigment)
    * Return of the infection (relapse or disease recurrence)
    * Side effects from drugs such as amphotericin B

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of blastomycosis.

## Prevention

Avoiding travel to areas where the infection is known to occur may help
prevent exposure to the fungus, but this may not always be possible.

## Alternative Names

North American blastomycosis; Gilchrist disease

## Patient Instructions

    * Leg amputation - discharge

## Images

    * ![Fungus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9485t.jpg)Fungus
    * ![Lung tissue biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9600t.jpg)Lung tissue biopsy
    * ![Osteomyelitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9712t.jpg)Osteomyelitis

## References

Bradsher RW. Blastomycosis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 266.

Elewski BE, Hughey LC, Hunt KM, Hay RJ. Fungal diseases. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 77.

Kauffman CA. Blastomycosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 334.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

