Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000880.htm    
                                Description: Candida infection of the skin is a yeast infection of the skin. The medical name of the condition is cutaneous candidiasis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Candida infection of the skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000880.htm

# Candida infection of the skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Candida infection of the skin is a yeast infection of the skin. The medical
name of the condition is cutaneous candidiasis.

## Causes

The body normally hosts a variety of germs, including bacteria and fungi. Some
of these are useful to the body, some produce no harm or benefit, and some can
cause harmful infections.

Some fungal infections are caused by fungi that often live on the hair, nails,
and outer skin layers. They include yeast-like fungi such as candida.
Sometimes, these yeast penetrate beneath the surface of the skin and cause
infection.

In cutaneous candidiasis, the skin is infected with candida fungi. This type
of infection is fairly common. It can involve almost any skin on the body, but
most often it occurs in warm, moist, creased areas such as the armpits and
groin. The fungus that most often causes cutaneous candidiasis is _Candida
albicans_.

Candida is the most common cause of diaper rash in infants. The fungi take
advantage of the warm, moist conditions inside the diaper. Candida infection
is also particularly common in people with diabetes and in those who are
obese. Antibiotics, steroid therapy, and chemotherapy increase the risk of
cutaneous candidiasis. Candida can also cause infections of the nails, edges
of the nails, and corners of the mouth.

Oral thrush, a form of candida infection of the moist lining of the mouth,
usually occurs when people take antibiotics. It may also be a sign of an HIV
infection or other weakened immune system disorders when it occurs in adults.
Individuals with candida infections are not usually contagious, though in some
settings people with weakened immune systems may catch the infection.

Candida is also the most frequent cause of vaginal yeast infections. These
infections are common and often occur with antibiotic use.

## Symptoms

A candida infection of the skin can cause intense itching.

Symptoms also include:

    * Red, growing skin rash
    * Rash on the skin folds, genitals, middle of the body, buttocks, under the breasts, and other areas of skin
    * Infection of the hair follicles that may look like pimples 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose this condition by looking at
your skin. Your provider may gently scrape off a sample of skin for testing.

Older children and adults with a yeast skin infection should be tested for
diabetes. High sugar levels, seen in people with diabetes, act as food for the
yeast fungus, and help it grow.

## Treatment

Good general health and hygiene are very important for treating candida
infections of the skin. Keeping the skin dry and exposed to air is helpful.
Drying (absorbent) powders may help prevent fungal infections.

Losing weight may help eliminate the problem if you are overweight.

Proper blood sugar control may also be helpful to those with diabetes.

Antifungal skin creams, ointments, or powders may be used to treat a yeast
infection of the skin, mouth, or vagina. You may need to take antifungal
medicine by mouth for severe candida infections in the mouth, throat, or
vagina.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cutaneous candidiasis often goes away with treatment, especially if the
underlying cause is corrected. Repeat infections are common.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Infection of the nails may cause the nails to become oddly shaped and may cause an infection around the nail.
    * Candida skin infections may return.
    * Widespread candidiasis may occur in people with weakened immune systems. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of cutaneous candidiasis.

## Alternative Names

Skin infection - fungal; Fungal infection - skin; Skin infection - yeast;
Yeast infection - skin; Intertriginous candidiasis; Cutaneous candidiasis

## Images

    * ![Candida - fluorescent stain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1053t.jpg)Candida - fluorescent stain
    * ![Candidiasis, cutaneous - around the mouth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1411t.jpg)Candidiasis, cutaneous - around the mouth

## References

Edwards JE. _Candida_ species. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 258.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Diseases resulting from fungi and yeasts. In:
James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Yeast
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/YeastInfection_thumb.jpg)Yeast
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

