Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001444.htm    
                                Description: Paronychia is a skin infection that occurs around the nails.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paronychia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001444.htm

# Paronychia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paronychia is a skin infection that occurs around the nails.

## Causes

Paronychia is common. It is from injury to the area, such as biting off or
picking a hangnail or from trimming or pushing back the cuticle.

The infection is caused by:

    * Bacteria
    * Candida, a type of yeast
    * Other types of fungi 

A bacterial and fungal infection can occur at the same time.

Fungal paronychia may occur in people who:

    * Have a fungal nail infection
    * Have diabetes
    * Expose their hands to water a lot 

## Symptoms

Main symptom is a painful, red, swollen area around the nail, often at the
cuticle or at the site of a hangnail or other injury. There may be pus-filled
blisters, especially with a bacterial infection.

Bacteria cause the condition to come on suddenly. If all or part of the
infection is due to a fungus, it tends to occur more slowly.

Nail changes may occur. For example, the nail may look detached, abnormally
shaped, or have an unusual color.

If the infection spreads to the rest of the body, symptoms may include:

    * Fever, chills
    * Development of red streaks along the skin
    * General ill feeling
    * Joint pain
    * Muscle pain 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can usually diagnose this condition by simply looking
at the sore skin.

Pus or fluid may be drained and sent to a laboratory to determine what type of
bacteria or fungus is causing the infection.

## Treatment

If you have bacterial paronychia, soaking your nail in warm water 2 or 3 times
a day helps reduce swelling and pain.

Your provider may prescribe oral antibiotics. In severe cases, your provider
may cut and drain the sore with a sharp instrument. Part of the nail may need
to be removed.

If you have chronic fungal paronychia, your provider may prescribe antifungal
medicine.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Paronychia often responds well to treatment. But, fungal infections may last
for several months.

## Possible Complications

Complications are rare, but may include:

    * Abscess
    * Permanent changes in the shape of the nail
    * Spread of infection to tendons, bones, or bloodstream 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Paronychia symptoms continue despite treatment
    * Symptoms worsen or new symptoms develop 

## Prevention

To prevent paronychia:

    * Care for the nails and the skin around the nails properly.
    * Avoid damaging the nails or fingertips. Because the nails grow slowly, an injury can last for months.
    * DO NOT bite or pick the nails.
    * Protect the nails from exposure to detergents and chemicals by using rubber or plastic gloves. Gloves with cotton liners are best.
    * Bring your own manicure tools to nail salons. Do not allow the manicurist to work on your cuticles. 

To minimize the risk for damage to the nails:

    * Keep fingernails smooth and trim them weekly.
    * Trim toenails about once a month.
    * Use sharp manicure scissors or clippers for trimming fingernails and toenails, and an emery board for smoothing the edges.
    * Trim nails after bathing, when they are softer.
    * Trim fingernails with a slightly rounded edge. Trim toenails straight across and do not cut them too short.
    * DO NOT trim cuticles or use cuticle removers. Cuticle removers can damage the skin around the nail. The cuticle is needed to seal the space between the nail and skin. Trimming the cuticle weakens this seal, which can allow germs to enter the skin and lead to infection. 

## Alternative Names

Infection - skin around the nail

## Images

    * ![Paronychia - candidial](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2527t.jpg)Paronychia - candidial
    * ![Nail infection - candidal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1877t.jpg)Nail infection - candidal

## References

Habif TP. Nail diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
25.

Leggit JC. Acute and chronic paronychia. _Am Fam Physician_. 2017;96(1):44-51.
PMID: 28671378 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28671378.

Mallett RB, Banfield CC. Paronychia. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones
J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 182.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nail Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NailDiseases_thumb.jpg)Nail
Diseases _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

