Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003258.htm    
                                Description: Hallucinations involve sensing things such as visions, sounds, or smells that seem real but are not. These things are created by the mind.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hallucinations

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003258.htm

# Hallucinations

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hallucinations involve sensing things such as visions, sounds, or smells that
seem real but are not. These things are created by the mind.

## Considerations

Common hallucinations can include:

    * Feeling sensations in the body, such as a crawling feeling on the skin or the movement of internal organs.
    * Hearing sounds, such as music, footsteps, windows or doors banging.
    * Hearing voices when no one has spoken (the most common type of hallucination). These voices may be positive, negative, or neutral. They may command someone to do something that may cause harm to themselves or others.
    * Seeing patterns, lights, beings, or objects that are not there.
    * Smelling an odor.

Sometimes, hallucinations are normal. For example, hearing the voice of or
briefly seeing a loved one who recently died can be a part of the grieving
process.

## Causes

There are many causes of hallucinations, including:

    * Being drunk or high, or coming down from such drugs like marijuana, LSD, cocaine (including crack), PCP, amphetamines, heroin, ketamine, and alcohol
    * Delirium or dementia (visual hallucinations are most common)
    * Epilepsy that involves a part of the brain called the temporal lobe (odor hallucinations are most common)
    * Fever, especially in children and the older people
    * Narcolepsy (disorder that causes a person to fall into periods of deep sleep)
    * Mental disorders, such as schizophrenia and psychotic depression
    * Sensory problem, such as blindness or deafness
    * Severe illness, including liver failure, kidney failure, HIV/AIDS, and brain cancer 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A person who begins to hallucinate and is detached from reality should get
checked by a health care professional right away. Many medical and mental
conditions that can cause hallucinations may quickly become emergencies. The
person should not be left alone.

Call your health care provider, go to the emergency room, or call your local
emergency number (such as 911).

A person who smells odors that are not there should also be evaluated by a
provider. These hallucinations may be caused by a serious medical condition.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do a physical examination and take a medical history. They
will also ask you questions about your hallucinations. For example, how long
the hallucinations have been happening, when they occur, or whether you have
been taking medicines or using alcohol or illegal drugs.

Your provider may take a blood sample for testing.

Treatment depends on the cause of your hallucinations.

## Alternative Names

Sensory hallucinations

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic
disorders. In: American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric
Publishing. 2013:87-122.

Freudenreich O, Brown HE, Holt DJ. Psychosis and schizophrenia. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Kelly MP, Shapshak D. Thought disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 100.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Psychotic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PsychoticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Psychotic
Disorders _Read more_

![Schizophrenia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Schizophrenia_thumb.jpg)Schizophrenia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

