Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000930.htm    
                                Description: Schizoaffective disorder is a mental condition that causes both a loss of contact with reality (psychosis) and mood problems (depression or mania).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Schizoaffective disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000930.htm

# Schizoaffective disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Schizoaffective disorder is a mental condition that causes both a loss of
contact with reality (psychosis) and mood problems (depression or mania).

## Causes

The exact cause of schizoaffective disorder is unknown. Changes in genes and
chemicals in the brain (neurotransmitters) may play a role.

Schizoaffective disorder is thought to be less common than schizophrenia and
mood disorders. Women may have the condition more often than men.
Schizoaffective disorder tends to be rare in children.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of schizoaffective disorder are different in each person. Often,
people with schizoaffective disorder seek treatment for problems with mood,
daily function, or abnormal thoughts.

Psychosis and mood problems may occur at the same time or by themselves. The
disorder may involve cycles of severe symptoms followed by improvement.

The symptoms of schizoaffective disorder can include:

    * Changes in appetite and energy
    * Disorganized speech that is not logical
    * False beliefs (delusions), such as thinking someone is trying to harm you (paranoia) or thinking that special messages are hidden in common places (delusions of reference)
    * Lack of concern with hygiene or grooming
    * Mood that is either too good, or depressed or irritable
    * Problems sleeping
    * Problems with concentration
    * Sadness or hopelessness
    * Seeing or hearing things that are not there (hallucinations)
    * Social isolation
    * Speaking so quickly that others cannot interrupt you 

## Exams and Tests

There are no medical tests to diagnose schizoaffective disorder. The health
care provider will do a mental health assessment to find out about the
person's behavior and symptoms. A psychiatrist may be consulted to confirm the
diagnosis.

To be diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder, the person has symptoms of both
psychotic and a mood disorder. In addition, the person must have psychotic
symptoms during a period of normal mood for at least 2 weeks.

The combination of psychotic and mood symptoms in schizoaffective disorder can
be seen in other illnesses, such as bipolar disorder. Extreme disturbance in
mood is an important part of schizoaffective disorder.

Before diagnosing schizoaffective disorder, the provider will rule out medical
and drug-related conditions. Other mental disorders that cause psychotic or
mood symptoms must also be ruled out. For example, psychotic or mood disorder
symptoms can occur in people who:

    * Use cocaine, amphetamines, or phencyclidine (PCP)
    * Have seizure disorders
    * Take steroid medicines 

## Treatment

Treatment can vary. In general, your provider will prescribe medicines to
improve your mood and treat psychosis:

    * Antipsychotic medicines are used to treat psychotic symptoms.
    * Antidepressant medicines, or mood stabilizers, may be prescribed to improve mood. 

Talk therapy can help with creating plans, solving problems, and maintaining
relationships. Group therapy can help with social isolation.

Support and work training may be helpful for work skills, relationships, money
management, and living situations.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with schizoaffective disorder have a greater chance of going back to
their previous level of function than do people with most other psychotic
disorders. But long-term treatment is often needed, and results vary from
person to person.

## Possible Complications

Complications are similar to those for schizophrenia and major mood disorders.
These include:

    * Drug use
    * Problems following medical treatment and therapy
    * Problems due to manic behavior (for example, spending sprees, overly sexual behavior)
    * Suicidal behavior 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or someone you know is experiencing any of the
following:

    * Depression with feelings of hopelessness or helplessness
    * Inability to care for basic personal needs
    * Increase in energy and involvement in risky behavior that is sudden and not normal for you (for instance, going days without sleeping and feeling no need for sleep)
    * Strange or unusual thoughts or perceptions
    * Symptoms that get worse or do not improve with treatment
    * Thoughts of suicide or of harming others

## Alternative Names

Mood disorder - schizoaffective disorder; Psychosis - schizoaffective disorder

## Images

    * ![Schizoaffective disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17242t.jpg)Schizoaffective disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic
disorders. In: American Psychiatric Association, ed. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:87-122.

Freudenreich O, Brown HE, Holt DJ. Psychosis and schizophrenia. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Lyness JM. Psychiatric disorders in medical practice. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 397.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Psychotic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PsychoticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Psychotic
Disorders _Read more_

![Schizophrenia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Schizophrenia_thumb.jpg)Schizophrenia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

