Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000511.htm    
                                Description: Group B streptococcus (GBS) is a type of bacteria that some women carry in their intestines and vagina. It is not passed through sexual contact.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Group B streptococcus - pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000511.htm

# Group B streptococcus - pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Group B streptococcus (GBS) is a type of bacteria that some women carry in
their intestines and vagina. It is not passed through sexual contact.

## GBS Infection in Newborn Babies

Most of the time, GBS is harmless. However, GBS can be passed to a newborn
during birth.

Most babies who come in contact with GBS during birth will not become sick.
But the few babies who do become ill can have severe problems.

After your baby is born, GBS can lead to infections in:

    * The blood (sepsis)
    * The lungs (pneumonia)
    * The brain (meningitis) 

Most babies who get GBS will start having problems during their first week of
life. Some babies will not get sick until later. Symptoms can take as long as
3 months to appear.

The infections caused by GBS are serious and can be fatal. Yet prompt
treatment can lead to complete recovery.

## Preventing GBS Infections in Babies

Women who carry GBS often don't know it. You are more likely to pass the GBS
bacteria to your baby if:

    * You go into labor before week 37.
    * Your water breaks before week 37.
    * It has been 18 or more hours since your water broke, but you haven't had your baby yet.
    * You have a fever of 100.4Â°F (38Â°C)Â or more during labor.
    * You have had a baby with GBS during another pregnancy.
    * You have had urinary tract infections that were caused by GBS.

When you are 35Â to 37 weeks pregnant, your doctor may do a test for GBS. The
doctor will take a culture by swabbing the outer part of your vagina and
rectum. The swab will be tested for GBS. Results are often ready in a few
days.

Some doctors do not test for GBS. Instead, they will treat any woman who is at
risk for having their baby be affected by GBS.

## Treating and Preventing GBS Infections in Pregnant Women

There is no vaccine to protect women and babies from GBS.

If a test shows that you carry GBS, your doctor will give you antibiotics
through an IV during your labor. Even if you are not tested for GBS but have
risk factors, your doctor will give you the same treatment.

There is no way to avoid getting GBS.

    * The bacteria are widespread. People who carry GBS often have no symptoms. GBS can come and go.
    * Testing positive for GBS does not mean you will have it forever. But you will still be considered a carrier for the rest of your life.

Note: Strep throat is caused by a different bacterium. If you have had strep
throat, or got it while you were pregnant, it does not mean that you have GBS.

## Alternative Names

GBS - pregnancy

## References

Duff P, Birsner M. Maternal and perinatal infection in pregnancy: bacterial.
In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

Leonard EG, Dobbs K. Postnatal bacterial infections. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff
AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 55.

Pannaraj PS, Baker CJ. Group B streptococcal infections. In: Cherry J,
Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's
Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 83.

Verani JR, McGee L, Schrag SJ; Division of Bacterial Diseases, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). Prevention of perinatal group B streptococcal disease--
revised guidelines from CDC, 2010. _MMWR Recomm Rep_. 2010;59(RR-10):1-36.
PMID: 21088663 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21088663.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infections and Pregnancy
    * Streptococcal Infections

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

