Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003522.htm    
                                Description: Antistreptolysin O (ASO) titer is a blood test to measure antibodies against streptolysin O, a substance produced by group A streptococcus bacteria. Antibodies are proteins our bodies produce when they    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antistreptolysin O titer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003522.htm

# Antistreptolysin O titer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Antistreptolysin O (ASO) titer is a blood test to measure antibodies against
streptolysin O, a substance produced by group A streptococcus bacteria.
Antibodies are proteins our bodies produce when they detect harmful
substances, such as bacteria.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT eat for 6 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, you may feel moderate pain, or only
a prick. After the test, you may have some throbbing at the site.

## Why the Test is Performed

You will need the test if you have symptoms of a previous infection by group A
streptococcus. Some illnesses caused by this bacteria are:

    * Bacterial endocarditis, an infection of the inner lining of your heart
    * A kidney problem called glomerulonephritis
    * Rheumatic fever, which can affect the heart, joints, or bones
    * Scarlet fever
    * Strep throat

The ASO antibody may be found in the blood weeks or months after the strep
infection has gone away.

## Normal Results

A negative test result means that you do not have strep infection. Your health
care provider may do the test again in 2 to 4 weeks. At times, a test that was
negative the first time may be positive (meaning it finds ASO antibodies) when
done again.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly. Talk to your provider about the meaning
of your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal or positive test result means you recently had a strep infection,
even if you had no symptoms.

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from person to person, and from one side of
the body to the other. Because of this, it may be harder to get a blood sample
from some people than it is from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding where the needle is inserted
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

ASO titer; ASLO

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Bryant AE, Stevens DL. Streptococcus pyogenes. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 199.

Comeau D, Corey D. Rheumatology and musculoskeletal problems. In: Rakel RE,
Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 32.

Low DE. Nonpneumococcal streptococcal infections andÂ rheumatic fever. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 290.

Nussenbaum B, Bradford CR. Pharyngitis in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund VJ, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocarditis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endocarditis_thumb.jpg)Endocarditis
_Read more_

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

