Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003537.htm    
                                Description: Anti-DNase B is a blood test to look for antibodies to a substance (protein) produced by group A streptococcus. This is the bacteria that cause strep throat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-DNase B blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003537.htm

# Anti-DNase B blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anti-DNase B is a blood test to look for antibodies to a substance (protein)
produced by group A streptococcus _._ This is the bacteria that cause strep
throat.

When used together with the ASLO titer test, more than 90% of past
streptococcal infections can be correctly identified.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbingÂ or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done to tell if you have previously had a strep
infection and if you might have rheumatic fever or kidney problems
(glomerulonephritis) due to that infection.

## Normal Results

A negative test is normal. Some people have low concentrations of antibodies,
but they have not had a recent strep infection. Therefore, normal values in
different age groups are:

    * Adults: less than 85 units/milliliter (mL)
    * School-age children: less than 170 units/mL
    * Preschool children: less than 60 units/mL

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different specimens. Talk to your health
care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased levels of DNase B levels indicate exposure to group A streptococcus.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Strep throat - anti-DNase B test; Antideoxyribonuclease B titer; ADN-B test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Bryant AE, Stevens DL. Streptococcus pyogenes. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 199.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Antideoxyribonuclease B antibody titer (anti-DNase B
antibody, streptodornase) â serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, St Louis,
MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:145.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

