Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003745.htm    
                                Description: A streptococcal screen is a test to detect group A streptococcus. This type of bacteria is the most common cause of strep throat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Streptococcal screen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003745.htm

# Streptococcal screen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A streptococcal screen is a test to detect group A streptococcus. This type of
bacteria is the most common cause of strep throat.

## How the Test is Performed

The test requires a throat swab. The swab is tested to identify group A
streptococcus. It takes about 7 minutes to get the results.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation. Tell your health care provider if you are
taking antibiotics, or have recently taken them.

## How the Test will Feel

The back of your throat will be swabbed in the area of your tonsils. This may
make you gag.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may recommend this test if you have signs of strep throat, which
include:

    * Fever
    * Sore throat
    * Tender and swollen glands at the front of your neck
    * White or yellow spots on your tonsils 

## Normal Results

A negative strep screen most often means group A streptococcus is not present.
It is unlikely that you have strep throat.

If your provider still thinks that you may have strep throat, a throat culture
will be done in children and adolescents.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive strep screen most often means group A streptococcus is present, and
confirms that you have strep throat.

Sometimes, the test may be positive even if you do not have strep. This is
called a false-positive result.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

This test screens for the group A streptococcus bacteria only. It will not
detect other causes of sore throat.

## Alternative Names

Rapid strep test

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Throat swabs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9950t.jpg)Throat swabs

## References

Flores AR, Caserta MT. Pharyngitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 59.

Nussenbaum B, Bradford CR. Pharyngitis in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Shulman ST. Group A streptococcus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 183.

Weber R. Pharyngitis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018;50-52.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

