Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000639.htm    
                                Description: Strep throat is a disease that causes a sore throat (pharyngitis). It is an infection with a germ called group A streptococcus bacteria.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Strep throat

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000639.htm

# Strep throat

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Strep throat is a disease that causes a sore throat (pharyngitis). It is an
infection with a germ called group A streptococcus bacteria.

## Causes

Strep throat is most common in children between ages 5 and 15, although anyone
can get it.

Strep throat is spread by person-to-person contact with fluids from the nose
or saliva. It commonly spreads among family or household members.

![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1118.jpg)

## Symptoms

Symptoms appear about 2 to 5 days after coming in contact with the strep germ.
They may be mild or severe.

Common symptoms include:

    * Fever that may begin suddenly and is often the highest on the second day
    * Chills
    * Red, sore throat that may have white patches
    * Pain when swallowing
    * Swollen, tender neck glands 
![Strep throat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19694.jpg)

Other symptoms may include:

    * General ill feeling
    * A loss of appetite and abnormal sense of taste
    * Headache
    * Nausea 

Some strains of strep throat can lead to a scarlet fever-like rash. The rash
first appears on the neck and chest. It may then spread over the body. The
rash may feel rough like sandpaper.

The same germ that causes strep throat may also cause symptoms of a sinus
infection or an ear infection.

## Exams and Tests

Many other causes of sore throat may have the same symptoms. Your health care
provider must do a test to diagnose strep throat and decide whether to
prescribe antibiotics.

A rapid strep test can be done in most provider offices. However, the test may
be negative, even if strep is present.

If the rapid strep test is negative and your provider still suspects that the
strep bacteria is causing the sore throat, a throat swab can be tested
(cultured) to see if strep grows from it. Results will take 1 to 2 days.

## Treatment

Most sore throats are caused by viruses, not bacteria.

A sore throat should be treated with antibiotics only if the strep test is
positive. Antibiotics are taken to prevent rare but more serious health
problems, such as rheumatic fever.

Penicillin or amoxicillin are most often the first drugs to be tried.

    * Certain other antibiotics may also work against the strep bacteria. 
    * Antibiotics should be taken for 10 days, even though symptoms are often gone within a few days.

The following tips may help your sore throat feel better:

    * Drink warm liquids, such as lemon tea or tea with honey.
    * Gargle several times a day with warm salt water (1/2 tsp or 3 grams of salt in 1 cup or 240 milliliters water).
    * Drink cold liquids or suck on fruit-flavored ice pops.
    * Suck on hard candies or throat lozenges. Young children should not be given these products because they can choke on them.
    * A cool-mist vaporizer or humidifier can moisten and soothe a dry and painful throat.
    * Try over-the-counter pain medicines, such as acetaminophen. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms of strep throat most often get better in about 1 week. Untreated,
strep can lead to serious complications.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Kidney disease caused by strep
    * A skin condition in which small, red, and scaly teardrop-shaped spots appear on the arms, legs, and middle of the body, called guttate psoriasis
    * Abscess in the area around the tonsils
    * Rheumatic fever
    * Scarlet fever

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

CallÂ your provider if you or your child develops the symptoms of strep
throat. Also, call if symptoms do not get better within 24 to 48 hours of
starting treatment.

## Prevention

Most people with strep can spread the infection to others until they have been
on antibiotics for 24 to 48 hours. They should stay home from school, daycare,
or work until they have been on antibiotics for at least a day.

Get a new toothbrush after 2 or 3 days, but before finishing the antibiotics.
Otherwise, the bacteria can live on the toothbrush and reinfect you when the
antibiotics are done. Also, keep your family's toothbrushes and utensils
separate, unless they have been washed.

If repeated cases of strep still occur in a family, you might check to see if
someone is a strep carrier. Carriers have strep in their throats, but the
bacteria do not make them sick. Sometimes, treating them can prevent others
from getting strep throat.

## Alternative Names

Pharyngitis - streptococcal; Streptococcal pharyngitis; Tonsillitis - strep;
Sore throat strep

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Strep throat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19694t.jpg)Strep throat

## References

Ebell MH. Diagnosis of streptococcal pharyngitis. _Am Fam Physician_.
2014;89(12):976-977. PMID: 25162166 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25162166.

Flores AR, Caserta MT. Pharyngitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 59.

Harris AM, Hicks LA, Qaseem A; High Value Care Task Force of the American
College of Physicians and for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Appropriate antibiotic use for acute respiratory tract infection in adults:
advice for high-value care from the American College of Physicians and the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. _Ann Intern Med_.
2016;164(6):425-434. PMID: 26785402 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26785402.

Shulman ST, Bisno AL, Clegg HW, et al. Clinical practice guideline for the
diagnosis and management of group A streptococcal pharyngitis: 2012 update by
the Infectious Diseases Society of America. _Clin Infect Dis_.
2012;55(10):e86-e102. PMID: 22965026 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22965026.

Tanz RR. Acute pharyngitis. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 409.

van Driel ML, De Sutter AI, Habraken H, Thorning S, Christiaens T. Different
antibiotic treatments for group A streptococcal pharyngitis. _Cochrane
Database Syst Rev_. 2016;9:CD004406. PMID: 27614728
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27614728.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![Throat
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThroatDisorder_thumb.jpg)Throat
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

