Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000974.htm    
                                Description: Scarlet fever is caused by an infection with bacteria called A streptococcus. This is the same bacteria that cause strep throat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scarlet fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000974.htm

# Scarlet fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scarlet fever is caused by an infection with bacteria called A streptococcus
_._ This is the same bacteria that cause strep throat.

## Causes

Scarlet fever was once a very serious childhood disease, but now it is easy to
treat. The streptococcal bacteria that cause it produce a toxin that leads to
the red rash the illness is named for.

The main risk factor for getting scarlet fever is infection with the bacteria
that cause strep throat. An outbreak of strep throat or scarlet fever in the
community, neighborhood, or school may increase the risk of infection.

## Symptoms

The time between infection and symptoms is short, most often 1 to 2 days. The
illness will likely begin with a fever and sore throat.

The rash first appears on the neck and chest, then spreads over the body.
People say it feels like sandpaper. The texture of the rash is more important
than the appearance to confirm the diagnosis. The rash can last for more than
a week. As the rash fades, the skin around the fingertips, toes, and groin
area may peel.

Other symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bright red color in the creases of the underarm and groin
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * General discomfort (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Muscle aches
    * Sore throat
    * Swollen, red tongue (strawberry tongue)
    * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may check for scarlet fever by doing a:

    * Physical examination
    * Throat culture that shows bacteria from group A streptococcus 
    * Throat swab to do a test called rapid antigen detection

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to kill the bacteria that cause the throat infection.
This is crucial to prevent rheumatic fever, a serious complication of strep
throat and scarlet fever.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With proper antibiotic treatment, the symptoms of scarlet fever should get
better quickly. However, the rash can last for up to 2 to 3 weeks before it
fully goes away.

## Possible Complications

Complications are rare with the right treatment, but may include:

    * Acute rheumatic fever, which can affect the heart, joints, skin, and brain
    * Ear infection
    * Kidney damage
    * Liver damage
    * Pneumonia
    * Sinus infection
    * Swollen lymph glands or abscess

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of scarlet fever
    * Your symptoms do not go away 24 hours after beginning antibiotic treatment
    * You develop new symptoms

## Prevention

Bacteria are spread by direct contact with infected people, or by droplets an
infected person coughs or exhales. Avoid contact with infected people.

## Alternative Names

Scarlatina; Strep infection - scarlet fever; Streptococcus - scarlet fever

## Images

    * ![Signs of scarlet fever](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19082t.jpg)Signs of scarlet fever

## References

Bryant AE, Stevens DL. Streptococcus pyogenes. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 199.

Michaels MG, Williams JV. Infectious diseases. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 13.

Shulman ST. Group A Streptococcus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 183.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

