Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001066.htm    
                                Description: Spinal cord trauma is damage to the spinal cord. It may result from direct injury to the cord itself or indirectly from disease of the nearby bones, tissues, or blood vessels.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal cord trauma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001066.htm

# Spinal cord trauma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spinal cord trauma is damage to the spinal cord. It may result from direct
injury to the cord itself or indirectly from disease of the nearby bones,
tissues, or blood vessels.

## Causes

The spinal cord contains the nerve fibers. These nerve fibers carry messages
between your brain and body. The spinal cord passes through the spinal canal
of your spine in your neck and back down to the first lumbar vertebra.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) can be caused by any of the following:

    * Assault
    * Falls
    * Gunshot wounds
    * Industrial accidents
    * Motor vehicle accidents
    * Diving
    * Sports injuries 

A minor injury can damage the spinal cord. Conditions such as rheumatoid
arthritis or osteoporosis can weaken the spine, which normally protects the
spinal cord. Injury can also occur if the spinal canal protecting the spinal
cord has become too narrow (spinal stenosis). This occurs during normal aging.

Direct injury or damage to the spinal cord can occur due to:

    * Bruises if the bones or disks have been weakened
    * Fragments of bone (such as from broken vertebrae, which are the spine bones) in the spinal cord
    * Fragments of metal (such as from a traffic accident or gunshot)Â 
    * Sideways pulling or pressing or compression from twisting of the head, neck or back during an accident or intense chiropractic manipulation

Bleeding, fluid buildup, and swelling can occur inside or outside the spinal
cord (but within the spinal canal). This can press on the spinal cord and
damage it.

Most high impact SCIs, such as from motor vehicle accidents or sports
injuries, are seen in young, healthy people. Men ages 15 to 35 are most often
affected.

Risk factors include:

    * Participating in risky physical activities
    * Riding in or on high-speed vehicles
    * Diving into shallow water 

Low impact SCI often occurs in older adults from falls while standing or
sitting. Injury is due to a weakened spine from aging or bone loss
(osteoporosis).

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary, depending on the location of the injury. SCI causes weakness
and loss of feeling at, and below the injury. How severe the symptoms are
depends on whether the entire cord is severely injured (complete) or only
partially injured (incomplete).

An injury at and below the first lumbar vertebra does not cause SCI. But, it
may cause cauda equina syndrome. This is an injury to the nerve roots in this
area. This is a medical emergency and needs surgery right away.

Injuries of the spinal cord at any level can cause:

    * Increased muscle tone (spasticity)
    * Loss of normal bowel and bladder control (may include constipation, incontinence, bladder spasms)
    * Numbness
    * Sensory changes
    * Pain
    * Weakness, paralysis
    * Difficulty breathing because of weakness of the abdominal, diaphragm, or intercostal (rib) muscles 

CERVICAL (NECK) INJURIES

When spinal cord injuries are in the neck area, symptoms can affect the arms,
legs, and middle of the body. The symptoms:

    * May occur on one or both sides of the body
    * Can include breathing problems from paralysis of the breathing muscles, if the injury is high up in the neck 

THORACIC (CHEST LEVEL) INJURIES

When spinal injuries are at chest level, symptoms can affect the legs.
Injuries to the cervical or high thoracic spinal cord may also result in:

    * Blood pressure problems (too high and too low)
    * Abnormal sweating
    * Trouble maintaining normal temperature 

LUMBAR SACRAL (LOWER BACK) INJURIES

When spinal injuries are at the lower back level, symptoms can affect one or
both legs. Muscles that control the bowels and bladder can also be affected.
Spine injuries can damage the spinal cord if they are at the upper portion of
the lumbar spine or the lumbar and sacral nerve roots if they are at the lower
lumbar spine.

## Exams and Tests

SCI is a medical emergency that needs medical attention right away.

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, including a brain and
nervous system (neurological) exam. This will help identify the exact location
of the injury, if it is not known.

Some of the reflexes may be abnormal or missing. Once swelling goes down, some
reflexes may slowly recover.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * CT scan or MRI of the spine
    * Myelogram (an x-ray of the spine after injecting dye)
    * Spine x-rays
    * Electromyography (EMG)
    * Nerve conduction studies
    * Pulmonary function tests
    * Bladder function tests

## Treatment

An SCI needs to be treated right away, unless it is complete. The time between
the injury and treatment can affect the outcome.

Medicines called corticosteroids are sometimes used to reduce swelling that
may damage the spinal cord, though there is no clear evidence that they are
useful.

If spinal cord pressure is caused by a growth that can be removed or reduced
before the spinal nerves are completely destroyed, paralysis may improve.

Surgery may be needed to:

    * Realign the spinal bones (vertebrae)
    * Remove fluid, blood, or tissue that presses on the spinal cord (decompression laminectomy)
    * Remove bone fragments, disk fragments, or foreign objects
    * Fuse broken spinal bones or place spinal braces 

Bed rest may be needed to allow the bones of the spine to heal.

Spinal traction may be suggested. This can help keep the spine from moving.
The skull may be held in place with tongs. These are metal braces placed in
the skull and attached to weights or to a harness on the body (halo vest). You
may need to wear the spine braces or a cervical collar for many months.

The health care team will also tell you what to do for muscle spasms and bowel
and bladder dysfunction. They will also teach you how to care for your skin
and protect it from pressure sores.

You will probably need physical therapy, occupational therapy, and other
rehabilitation program after the injury has healed. Rehabilitation will help
you cope with the disability from your SCI.

## Support Groups

Seek out organizations for additional information on SCI. They can provide
support as you recover.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the level of injury. Injuries in the upper
(cervical) spine lead to more disability than injuries in the lower (thoracic
or lumbar) spine.

Paralysis and loss of sensation of part of the body are common. This includes
total paralysis or numbness, and loss of movement and feeling. Death is
possible, especially if there is paralysis of the breathing muscles.

A person who recovers some movement or feeling within 1 week usually has a
good chance of recovering more function, although this may take 6 months or
more. Losses that remain after 6 months are more likely to be permanent.

Routine bowel care often takes 1 hour or more each day. Most people with SCI
must perform bladder catheterization regularly.

The person's home will usually need to be modified.

Most people with SCI are in a wheelchair or need assistive devices to get
around.

Research in the field of spinal cord injury is ongoing, and promising
discoveries are being reported.

## Possible Complications

The following are possible complications of SCI:

    * Blood pressure changes that can be extreme (autonomic hyperreflexia)
    * Increased risk for injury to numb areas of the body
    * Increased risk forÂ urinary tract infections
    * Long-term kidney disease
    * Loss of bladder and bowel control
    * Loss of sexual function
    * Paralysis of breathing muscles and limbs (paraplegia, quadriplegia)
    * Problems due to not being able to move, such as deep vein thrombosis, lung infections, skin breakdown (pressure sores), and muscle stiffness
    * Shock
    * Depression 

People living at home with SCI should do the following to prevent
complications:

    * Get lung (pulmonary) care each day (if they need it).
    * Follow all instructions for bladder care to avoid infections and damage to the kidneys.
    * Follow all instructions for routine wound care to avoid pressure sores.
    * Keep immunizations up to date.
    * Maintain routine health visits with their doctor. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a back or neck injury. Call 911 if you lose
movement or feeling. This is a medical emergency.

Managing SCI begins at the site of an accident. Trained paramedics immobilize
the injured spine to prevent further nervous system damage.

Someone who may have a SCI should not be moved unless they are in immediate
danger.

## Prevention

The following measures may help prevent SCIs:

    * Proper safety practices during work and play can prevent many spinal cord injuries. Use protective equipment for any activity in which an injury is possible.
    * Diving into shallow water is a major cause of spinal cord trauma. Check water depth before diving, and look for rocks or other possible objects in the way.
    * Football and sledding can often involve sharp blows or abnormal twisting and bending of the back or neck, which can cause SCI. Before sledding, skiing or snowboarding down a hill, check the area for obstacles. Use the right techniques and equipment when playing football or other contact sports.
    * Defensive driving and wearing a seat belt reduces the risk of serious injury if there is a car accident.
    * Install and use grab bars in the bathroom, and handrails next to stairs to prevent falls.
    * People who have poor balance may need to use a walker or cane.
    * Highway speed limits should be observed. Do not drink and drive.

## Alternative Names

Spinal cord injury; Compression of spinal cord; SCI; Cord compression

## Patient Instructions

    * Preventing pressure ulcers

## Images

    * ![Vertebrae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19470t.jpg)Vertebrae
    * ![Cauda equina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19504t.jpg)Cauda equina
    * ![Vertebra and spinal nerves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23197t.jpg)Vertebra and spinal nerves

## References

Levi AD. Spinal cord injury. In: Vincent J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek
PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke website. Spinal cord
injury: hope through research. www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-
Education/Hope-Through-Research/Spinal-Cord-Injury-Hope-Through-Research#3233.
Updated February 8, 2017. Accessed May 28, 2018.

Sherman AL, Dalal KL. Spinal cord injury rehabilitation. In: Garfin SR,
Eismont FJ, Bell GR, Fischgrund JS, Bono CM, eds. _Rothman-Simeone and
Herkowitz's The Spine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 82.

Wang S, Singh JM, Fehlings MG. Medical management of spinal cord injury. In:
Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery._ 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 303.

## Review Date 4/4/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

