Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000029.htm    
                                Description: The spinal cord contains the nerves that carry messages between your brain and the rest of the body. The cord passes through your neck and back. A spinal cord injury is very serious because it can cause    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000029.htm

# Spinal injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The spinal cord contains the nerves that carry messages between your brain and
the rest of the body. The cord passes through your neck and back. A spinal
cord injury is very serious because it can cause loss of movement (paralysis)
and sensation below the site of the injury.

## Causes

A spinal cord injury may be caused by incidents such as:

    * Bullet or stab wound
    * Fracture of the spine
    * Traumatic injury to the face, neck, head, chest, or back (for example, a car accident)
    * Diving accident
    * Electric shock
    * Extreme twisting of the middle of the body
    * Sports injury
    * Falls

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a spinal cord injury may include any of the following:

    * Head that is in an unusual position
    * Numbness or tingling that spreads down an arm or leg
    * Weakness
    * Difficulty walking
    * Paralysis (loss of movement) of arms or legs
    * Loss of bladder or bowel control
    * Shock (pale, clammy skin, bluish lips and fingernails, acting dazed or semiconscious)
    * Lack of alertness (unconsciousness)
    * Stiff neck, headache, or neck pain

## First Aid

Never move anyone who you think may have a spinal injury, unless it is
absolutely necessary. For example, if you need to get the person out of a
burning car, or help them to breathe.

Keep the person completely still and safe until medical help arrives.

    * Call the local emergency number, such as 911.
    * Hold the person's head and neck in the position in which they were found.Â DO NOTÂ try to straighten the neck. DO NOT allow the neck to bend or twist.
    * DO NOT allow the person to get up and walk.

If the person is not alert or responding to you:

    * Check the person's breathing and circulation.
    * If needed, do CPR. DO NOT do rescue breathing or change the position of the neck, do chest compressions only.

DO NOT roll the person over unless the person is vomiting or choking on blood,
or you need to check for breathing.

If you need to roll the person over:

    * Have someone help you.
    * One person should be located at the person's head, the other at the person's side.
    * Keep the person's head, neck, and back in line while you roll them onto one side.

## DO NOT

    * DO NOTÂ bend, twist, or lift the person's head or body. 
    * DO NOTÂ attempt to move the person before medical help arrives unless it is absolutely necessary. 
    * DO NOTÂ remove a football helmet or pads if a spinal injury is suspected.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) if you think someone has a
spinal cord injury.Â Do notÂ move the person unless there is urgent danger.

## Prevention

The following may lower your risk for spinal injury:

    * Wear seat belts.
    * Do not drink and drive.
    * Do not dive into pools, lakes, rivers, and other bodies of water, particularly if you cannot determine the depth of the water or if the water is not clear.
    * Do not tackle or dive into a person with your head.

## Alternative Names

Spinal cord injury; SCI

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Vertebra, cervical \(neck\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1772t.jpg)Vertebra, cervical (neck)
    * ![Vertebra, lumbar \(low back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1773t.jpg)Vertebra, lumbar (low back)
    * ![Vertebra, thoracic \(mid back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1774t.jpg)Vertebra, thoracic (mid back)
    * ![Vertebral column](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1775t.jpg)Vertebral column
    * ![Central nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19588t.jpg)Central nervous system
    * ![Spinal cord injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19619t.jpg)Spinal cord injury
    * ![Spinal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9561t.jpg)Spinal anatomy
    * ![Two person roll - Procedure, part 1](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19634t.jpg)Two person roll - series

## References

American Red Cross. _First Aid/CPR/AED Participant's Manual_. Dallas, TX:
American Red Cross; 2016.

Kaji AH, Hockberger RS. Spinal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

