Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000734.htm    
                                Description: An animal bite can break, puncture, or tear the skin. Animal bites that break the skin put you at risk for infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Animal bites - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000734.htm

# Animal bites - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An animal bite can break, puncture, or tear the skin. Animal bites that break
the skin put you at risk for infections.

## Causes

Most animal bites come from pets. Dog bites are common and most often happen
to children. Compared with adults, children are much more likely to be bitten
on the face, head, or neck.

Cat bites are less common but have a higher risk for infection. Cat teeth are
longer and sharper, which can cause deeper puncture wounds. Most other animal
bites are caused by stray or wild animals, such as skunks, raccoons, foxes,
and bats.

Bites that cause a puncture wound are more likely to become infected. Some
animals are infected with a virus that can cause rabies. Rabies is rare but
can be deadly.

## Symptoms

Possible symptoms include:

    * Breaks or major cuts in the skin, with or without bleeding
    * Bruising
    * Crushing injuries that can cause severe tissue tears
    * Puncture wounds 
    * Tendon or joint injury

## Wound Care

Because of the risk for infection, you should see a health care provider
within 24 hours for any bite that breaks the skin. If you are caring for
someone who was bitten:

    * Calm and reassure the person.
    * Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before treating the wound.
    * If the wound is bleeding, put on latex gloves if you have them.
    * Wash your hands again afterward. 

To care for the wound:

    * Stop the wound from bleeding by applying direct pressure with a clean, dry cloth.
    * Wash the wound. Use mild soap and warm, running water. Rinse the bite for 3 to 5 minutes.
    * Apply an antibacterial ointment to the wound. This may help reduce the risk for infection.
    * Put on a sterile bandage.
    * If the bite is on the neck, head, face, hand, fingers, or feet, call your provider right away. 

For deeper wounds, you may need stitches. The provider may give you a tetanus
shot if you have not had one in the last 5 years. You may also need to take
antibiotics. If the infection has spread, you may receive antibiotics through
a vein (IV).

## When to Call Animal Control

You should call animal control or your local police if you are bitten by:

    * An animal that behaves in an odd way
    * An unknown pet or a pet that has not had a rabies vaccination
    * A stray or wild animal 

Tell them what the animal looks like and where it is. They will decide whether
the animal needs to be captured and isolated.

## Possible Complications

An animal bite is more likely to become infected in people who have:

    * Weakened immune systems due to medicines or disease
    * Diabetes
    * Peripheral arterial disease (arteriosclerosis, or poor circulation)

Getting a rabies shot right after you are bitten can protect you from the
disease.

## How to Prevent Animal Bites

To prevent animal bites:

    * Teach children not to approach strange animals.
    * DO NOT provoke or tease animals. 
    * DO NOT go near an animal that is acting strangely or aggressively. It may have rabies. DO NOT try to catch the animal yourself.

## When to Call the Doctor

Wild animals and unknown pets could be carrying rabies. If you have been
bitten by a wild or stray animal, contact your provider right away. See your
provider within 24 hours for any bite that breaks the skin.

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if:

    * There is swelling, redness, or pus draining from the wound.
    * The bite is on the head, face, neck, hands, or feet.
    * The bite is deep or large.
    * You see exposed muscle or bone.
    * You are not sure if the wound needs stitches.
    * The bleeding does not stop after a few minutes. For serious bleeding, call your local emergency number, such as 911.
    * You have not had a tetanus shot in 5 years. 

## Alternative Names

Bites - animals - self-care

## Images

    * ![Animal bite](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9753t.jpg)Animal bite
    * ![Animal bites](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17051t.jpg)Animal bites
    * ![Animal bite - first aid - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19600t.jpg)Animal bite - first aid - series

## References

Eilbert WP. Mammalian bites. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 54.

Goldstein EJC, Abrahamian FM. Bites. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 320.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Animal Bites

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

