Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000032.htm    
                                Description: Marine animal stings or bites refer to venomous or poisonous bites or stings from any form of sea life, including jellyfish.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Marine animal stings or bites

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000032.htm

# Marine animal stings or bites

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Marine animal stings or bites refer to venomous or poisonous bites or stings
from any form of sea life, including jellyfish.

There are about 2,000 species of animals found in the ocean that are either
venomous or poisonous to humans. Many can cause serious illness or death.

The number of injuries caused by these animals has gone up in recent years
because more people are taking part in scuba diving, snorkeling, surfing, and
other water sports. These animals are most often not aggressive. Many are
anchored to the ocean floor. Venomous marine animals in the United States are
most often found along the California, Gulf of Mexico, and southern Atlantic
coasts.

## Considerations

Most bites or stings of this type occur in salt water. Some types of marine
stings or bites can be deadly.

## Causes

Causes include bites or stings from various types of marine life, including:

    * Jellyfish
    * Portuguese man-of-war
    * Stingray
    * Stonefish
    * Scorpion fish
    * Catfish
    * Sea urchins
    * Sea anemone
    * Hydroid
    * Coral
    * Cone shell
    * Sharks
    * Barracudas
    * Moray or electric eels

## Symptoms

There may be pain, burning, swelling, redness, or bleeding near the area of
the bite or sting. Other symptoms can affect the entire body, and may include:

    * Cramps
    * Diarrhea
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Groin pain, armpit pain
    * Fever
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Paralysis
    * Sweating
    * Unconsciousness or sudden death from heart rhythm irregularities
    * Weakness, faintness, dizziness

## First Aid

Follow these steps to provide first aid:

    * Wear gloves, if possible, when removing stingers.
    * Brush off tentacles and stingers with a credit card or similar object if possible.
    * If you do not have a card, you can gently wipe off stingers or tentacles with a towel. Do not rub the area roughly.
    * Wash the area with salt water.
    * Soak the wound in hot water no hotter than 113Â°F (45Â°C) for 30 to 90 minutes, if told to do so by trained personnel. Always test water temperature before applying it to a child. 
    * Box jellyfish stings should be immediately rinsed with vinegar.
    * Fish stings and stings by Portuguese man-of-war should be immediately rinsed with hot water.

## DO NOT

Follow these cautions:

    * DO NOT attempt to remove stingers without protecting your own hands.
    * DO NOT raise the affected body part above the level of the heart.
    * DO NOT allow the person to exercise.
    * DO NOT give any medicine, unless told to do so by a health care provider. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help (call 911 or your local emergency number) if the person has
difficulty breathing, chest pain, nausea, vomiting, or uncontrolled bleeding;
if the sting site develops swelling or discoloration, or for other bodywide
(generalized) symptoms.

## Prevention

Things you can do to prevent a marine animal sting or bite include:

    * Swim near a lifeguard.
    * Observe posted signs that may warn of danger from jellyfish or other hazardous marine life.
    * Do not touch unfamiliar marine life. Even dead animals or severed tentacles may contain poisonous venom. 

## Alternative Names

Stings - marine animals; Bites - marine animals

## Images

    * ![Jellyfish sting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8860t.jpg)Jellyfish sting

## References

Auerbach PS, DiTullio AE. Envenomation by aquatic vertebrates. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 75.

Auerbach PS, DiTullio AE. Envenomation by aquatic invertebrates. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalBites_thumb.jpg)Animal
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

