Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002845.htm    
                                Description: Jellyfish are sea creatures. They have nearly see-through bodies with long, finger-like structures called tentacles. Stinging cells inside the tentacles can hurt you if you come in contact with them. Some    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jellyfish stings

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002845.htm

# Jellyfish stings

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jellyfish are sea creatures. They have nearly see-through bodies with long,
finger-like structures called tentacles. Stinging cells inside the tentacles
can hurt you if you come in contact with them. Some stings can cause serious
harm. Almost 2000 species of animals found in the ocean are either venomous or
poisonous to humans, and many can produce severe illness or fatalities.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a
jellyfish sting. If you or someone you are with is stung, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Jellyfish venom

## Where Found

Types of potentially harmful jellyfish include:

    * Lion's mane ( _Cyanea capillata_ ).
    * Portuguese man-of-war ( _Physalia physalis_ in the Atlantic and _Physalia utriculus_ in the Pacific).
    * Sea nettle ( _Chrysaora quinquecirrha_ ), one of the most common jellyfish found along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts.
    * Box jellyfish (Cubozoa) all have a box-like body or "bell" with tentacles extending from each corner. There are over 40 species of box jellies. These range from nearly invisible thimble-sized jellyfish to basketball-sized chirodropids found near the coasts of northern Australia, Thailand, and the Philippines ( _Chironex fleckeri, Chiropsalmus quadrigatus_ ). Sometimes called "sea wasps," box jellyfish are highly dangerous, and more than 8 species have caused deaths. Box jellyfish are found in the tropics including Hawaii, Saipan, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Caribbean, and Florida, and recently in a rare event in coastal New Jersey. 

There are also other types of stinging jellyfish.

If you are unfamiliar with an area, be sure to ask local ocean safety staff
about the potential for jellyfish stings and other marine hazards. In areas
where box jellies may be found, especially at sunset and sunrise, full body
coverage with a "stinger suit," hood, gloves, and booties is advised.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of stings from different types of jellyfish are:

LION'S MANE

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Muscle cramps
    * Skin burning and blistering (severe) 

PORTUGUESE MAN-OF-WAR

    * Abdominal pain
    * Changes in pulse
    * Chest pain
    * Chills
    * Collapse (shock)
    * Headache
    * Muscle pain and muscle spasms
    * Numbness and weakness
    * Pain in the arms or legs
    * Raised red spot where stung
    * Runny nose and watery eyes
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Sweating 

SEA NETTLE

    * Mild skin rash (with mild stings)
    * Muscle cramps and breathing difficulty (from a lot of contact) 

SEA WASP OR BOX JELLYFISH

    * Abdominal pain
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Changes in pulse
    * Chest pain
    * Collapse (shock)
    * Headache
    * Muscle pain and muscle spasms
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pain in the arms or legs
    * Raised red spot where stung
    * Severe burning pain and sting site blistering
    * Skin tissue death
    * Sweating 

For the great majority of bites, stings, or other forms of poisoning, the
danger is either drowning after being stung or an allergic reaction to the
venom.

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Get medical attention right away if pain
increases or there are any signs of breathing difficulty or chest pains.

    * As soon as possible, rinse the sting site with large amounts of household vinegar for at least 30 seconds. Vinegar is safe and effective for all types of jellyfish stings. Vinegar rapidly halts the thousands of tiny unfired stinging cells left on the surface of the skin after tentacle contact.
    * If vinegar is not available, the sting site can be washed with ocean water.
    * Protect the affected area and do NOT rub sand or apply any pressure to the area or scrape the sting site.
    * Soak the area in 107Â°FÂ to 115Â°F (42Â°C to 45Â°C) standard tap hot water, (not scalding) for 20 to 40 minutes.
    * After soaking in hot water, apply antihistamine or steroid creams such as cortisone cream. This can help with pain and itching.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of jellyfish, if possible
    * Time the person was stung 
    * Location of the sting

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated. The person may receive:

    * Antivenin, a medicine to reverse the effects of the venom, may be used for one specific box jelly species found only in certain areas of the Indo-Pacific ( _Chironex fleckeri_ )
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, a tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most jellyfish stings improve within hours, but some stings can lead to skin
irritation or rashes that last for weeks. Contact your provider if you
continue to have itching at the sting site. Topical anti-inflammatory creams
may be helpful.

Portuguese man-of-war and sea nettle stings are rarely deadly.

Certain box jellyfish stings can kill a person within minutes. Other box
jellyfish stings can lead to death in 4 to 48 hours after a sting due to
"Irukandji syndrome." This is a delayed reaction to the sting.

It is important to carefully monitor box jellyfish sting victims for hours
after a sting. Seek medical attention right away for any breathing
difficulties, chest or abdominal pains, or profuse sweating.

## References

Feng S-Y, Goto CS. Envenomations. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 746.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

Sladden C, Seymour J, Sladden M. Jellyfish stings. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR,
Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA. Elsevier; 2018:chap 116.

## Review Date 7/2/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Animal Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalBites_thumb.jpg)Animal
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

