Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002849.htm    
                                Description: Scorpion fish are members of the family Scorpaenidae, which includes zebrafish, lionfish and stonefish. These fish are very good at hiding in their surroundings. The fins of these prickly fish carry toxic    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scorpion fish sting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002849.htm

# Scorpion fish sting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scorpion fish are members of the family Scorpaenidae, which includes
zebrafish, lionfish and stonefish. These fish are very good at hiding in their
surroundings. The fins of these prickly fish carry toxic venom. This article
describes the effects of a sting from such a fish.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a sting
from one of these fish. If you or someone you are with is stung, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Scorpion fish venom is toxic.

## Where Found

Scorpion fish live in tropical waters, including along warm coasts of the
United States. They are also found in aquariums worldwide.

## Symptoms

A scorpion fish sting causes intense pain and swelling at the site of the
sting. Swelling can spread and affect an entire arm or leg within minutes.

Below are symptoms of a scorpion fish sting in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Difficulty breathing 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Collapse (shock)
    * Low blood pressure and weakness
    * Irregular heartbeat 

SKIN

    * Bleeding.
    * Lighter color of the area around the site of the sting.
    * Severe pain at the site of the sting. Pain can quickly spread to the entire limb.
    * Skin color changes as the amount of oxygen supplying the area decreases. 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Abdominal pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Anxiety
    * Delirium (agitation and confusion)
    * Fainting
    * Fever (from infection)
    * Headache
    * Muscle twitching
    * Numbness and tingling spreading out from the site of the sting
    * Paralysis
    * Seizures
    * Tremors (shaking) 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Contact local emergency services.

Wash the area with salt water. Remove any foreign material, such as sand or
dirt, from around the wound. Soak the wound in the hottest water the person
can stand for 30 to 90 minutes.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Time of the sting
    * Type of fish if known
    * Location of the sting 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The wound
will be soaked in a cleaning solution and any remaining foreign material will
be removed. Symptoms will be treated. Some or all of these procedures may be
performed:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine, called antiserum, to reverse the effect of the venom
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * X-rays 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery usually takes about 24 to 48 hours. Outcome often depends on how much
venom entered the body, the location of the sting, and how soon treatment is
received. Numbness or tingling may last for several weeks after the sting.
Skin breakdown is sometimes severe enough to need surgery.

A puncture to the person's chest or abdomen may lead to death.

## References

Auerbach PS, Ditullio AE. Envenomation by aquatic vertebrates. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 75.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

Thornton S, Clark RF. Marine food-borne poisoning, envenomation, and traumatic
injuries. In: Adams JG, ed. _Emergency Medicine: Clinical Essentials._ 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 142.

Warrell DA. Animals hazardous to humans: venomous bites and stings and
envenoming. In: Ryan ET, Hill DR, Solomon T, Aronson NE, Endy TP, eds.
_Hunter's Tropical and Emerging Infectious Diseases._ 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 137.

## Review Date 7/2/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Animal Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalBites_thumb.jpg)Animal
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

