Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002854.htm    
                                Description: Stonefish are members of the family Scorpaenidae, or scorpion fish. The family also includes zebrafish and lionfish. These fish are very good at hiding in their surroundings. The fins of these prickly    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stonefish sting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002854.htm

# Stonefish sting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stonefish are members of the family Scorpaenidae, or scorpion fish. The family
also includes zebrafish and lionfish. These fish are very good at hiding in
their surroundings. The fins of these prickly fish carry toxic venom. This
article describes the effects of a sting from this kind of fish.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual stonefish sting. If you or someone you are with is stung, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Stonefish venom is toxic.

## Where Found

Venomous stonefish and related sea animals live in tropical waters, including
off the warm coasts of the United States. They are also considered prized
aquarium fish, and are found worldwide in aquariums.

## Symptoms

A stonefish sting causes intense pain and swelling at the site of the sting.
Swelling can spread to an entire arm or leg within minutes.

Below are symptoms of a stonefish sting in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Difficulty breathing 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * No heartbeat
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Low blood pressure
    * Collapse (shock) 

SKIN

    * Bleeding.
    * Severe pain at the site of the sting. Pain can spread quickly into the entire limb.
    * Lighter color of the area around the sting.
    * Change to the color of the area as oxygen decreases. 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Abdominal pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Anxiety
    * Delirium (agitation and confusion)
    * Fainting
    * Fever (from infection)
    * Headache
    * Muscle twitching
    * Numbness and tingling, spreading out from the site of the sting
    * Paralysis
    * Seizures
    * Tremors (shaking) 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Contact your local emergency services. Wash the
area with fresh water. Remove any debris, such as sand, at the wound site.
Soak wound in the hottest water the person can tolerate for 30 to 90 minutes.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of fish, if known 
    * Time of the sting
    * Location of the sting 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The wound
will be soaked in a cleaning solution and any remaining debris will be
removed. Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. Some or all of the following
procedures may be performed:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine, called antiserum, to reverse the effect of the venom
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * X-rays

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery usually takes about 24 to 48 hours. Outcome often depends on how much
venom entered the body, the location of the sting, and how soon the person
received treatment. Numbness or tingling may last for several weeks after the
sting. Skin breakdown is sometimes severe enough to require surgery.

A puncture to the person's chest or abdomen may lead to death.

## References

Elston DM. Bites and stings. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology,_ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 85.

Auerbach PS, DiTullio AE. Envenomation by aquatic vertebrates. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS. eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 75.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 7/2/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Animal Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalBites_thumb.jpg)Animal
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

