Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002853.htm    
                                Description: A stingray is a sea animal with a whip-like tail. The tail has sharp spines that contain venom. This article describes the effects of a stingray sting. Stingrays are the most common group of fish that    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stingray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002853.htm

# Stingray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stingray is a sea animal with a whip-like tail. The tail has sharp spines
that contain venom. This article describes the effects of a stingray sting.
Stingrays are the most common group of fish that sting humans. Twenty-two
species of stingrays are found in US coastal waters, 14 in the Atlantic and 8
in the Pacific.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual stingray sting. If you or someone you are with is stung, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Stingray venom is toxic.

## Where Found

Stingrays and related species that carry toxic venom live in oceans all over
the world.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of a stingray sting in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Breathing difficulty 

EARS, NOSE AND THROAT

    * Salivating and drooling 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * No heartbeat
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Low blood pressure
    * Collapse (shock) 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Fainting
    * Body cramps and muscle twitching
    * Headache
    * Numbness and tingling
    * Paralysis
    * Weakness 

SKIN

    * Bleeding
    * Discoloration and blistering, sometimes containing blood
    * Pain and swelling of lymph nodes near the area of the sting
    * Severe pain at site of sting
    * Sweating
    * Swelling, both at the sting site and throughout the body, especially if the sting is on the skin of the trunk 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Contact your local emergency services. Wash the
area with salt water. Remove any debris, such as sand, from the wound site.
Soak the wound in the hottest water the person can tolerate for 30 to 90
minutes.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of sea animal
    * Time of the sting
    * Location of the sting 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

They will tell you if you should take the person to the hospital. They will
also tell you how to do any first aid that can be given before you get to the
hospital.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The wound
will be soaked in a cleaning solution and any remaining debris will be
removed. Symptoms will be treated. Some or all of these procedures may be
performed:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, through a vein)
    * Medicine called an antiserum to reverse the effect of the venom
    * Medicine to treat symptoms
    * X-rays 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome often depends on how much venom entered the body, the location of
the sting, and how soon the person receives treatment. Numbness or tingling
may last for several weeks after the sting. Deep stinger penetration may
require surgery for removal. Skin breakdown from the venom is sometimes severe
enough to require surgery.

A puncture in the person's chest or abdomen may lead to death.

## References

Auerbach PS, DiTullio AE. Envenomation by aquatic vertebrates. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Aurebach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 75.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

Stone DB, Scordino DJ. Foreign body removal. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 36.

## Review Date 7/2/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Animal Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalBites_thumb.jpg)Animal
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

