Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002850.htm    
                                Description: This article describes the effects of a scorpion sting.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scorpions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002850.htm

# Scorpions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes the effects of a scorpion sting.

This article for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a scorpion
sting. If you or someone you are with is stung, call your local emergency
number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached directly by
calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from
anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Scorpion venom contains toxins.

## Where Found

This venom is found in scorpions and related species. More than 40 species of
scorpions are found in the United States.

The class of insects to which scorpions belong contains the largest number of
venomous species known.

Scorpion stings kill more people around the world than any other animal,
except snakes (from snake bites). However, most varieties of North American
scorpions are NOT venomous. The venomous ones in the United States live mainly
in the southwestern deserts.

## Symptoms

In mild cases, the only symptom may be a mild tingling or burning at the site
of the sting.

In severe cases, symptoms in different parts of the body may include:

EYES AND EARS

    * Double vision 

LUNGS

    * Difficulty breathing
    * No breathing
    * Rapid breathing 

NOSE, MOUTH, AND THROAT

    * Drooling
    * Itching of the nose and throat
    * Spasm of the larynx (voice box)
    * Tongue that feels thick 

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Increased or decreased heart rate
    * Irregular heartbeat

KIDNEYS AND BLADDER

    * Inability to hold in urine
    * Decreased urine output

MUSCLES AND JOINTS

    * Muscle spasms

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Anxiety
    * Convulsions (seizures)
    * Paralysis
    * Random movements of the head, eye, or neck
    * Restlessness
    * Stiffness 

SKIN

    * Heightened sensitivity to touch in the area of the sting
    * Sweating 
STOMACH AND INTESTINAL TRACT

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Inability to hold in stool
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Home Care

Most stings from North American scorpions do not need treatment. Children 6
years and younger are more likely to have harmful effects from venomous types
of scorpions.

    * Clean the area thoroughly with soap and water.
    * Place ice (wrapped in a clean cloth) on the site of the sting for 10 minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process. If the person has problems with blood circulation, decrease the time that the ice is on the area to prevent possible skin damage.
    * Keep the affected area still, if possible, to prevent the venom from spreading.
    * Loosen clothing and remove rings and other tight jewelry.
    * Give the person diphenhydramine (Benadryl and other brands) by mouth if they can swallow. This antihistamine drug may be used alone for mild symptoms.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * The person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of scorpion, if possible
    * The time of the sting
    * Location of the sting

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the insect with you to the hospital, if possible. Make sure it is in a
tightly closed container.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The wound
and symptoms will be treated. The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to reverse the effect of the venom
    * Medicine to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Death from scorpion stings rarely occurs in people older than 6 years. If
symptoms rapidly become worse within the first 2 to 4 hours after the sting, a
poor outcome is more likely. Symptoms may last several days or longer. Some
deaths have occurred as late as weeks after the sting if complications
develop.

Scorpions are nocturnal predatory animals that usually spend the day under
rocks, logs, or floors and in crevices. DO NOT put your hands or feet in these
hiding places.

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Parasitic
infestations, stings, and bites. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach
MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 20.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

Suchard JR. Scorpion envenomation. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS,
eds. _Aurebach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Animal Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalBites_thumb.jpg)Animal
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

