Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000031.htm    
                                Description: Snake bites occur when a snake bites the skin. They are medical emergencies if the snake is venomous.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Snake bites

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000031.htm

# Snake bites

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Snake bites occur when a snake bites the skin. They are medical emergencies if
the snake is venomous.

Venomous animals account for a large number of deaths and injuries worldwide.
Snakes alone are estimated to inflict 2.5 million venomous bites each year,
resulting in about 125,000 deaths. The actual number may be much larger.
Southeast Asia, India, Brazil, and areas of Africa have the most deaths due to
snakebite.

## Considerations

Snake bites can be deadly if not treated quickly. Because of their smaller
body size, children are at higher risk for death or serious complications due
to snake bites.

The right antivenom can save a person's life. Getting to an emergency room as
quickly as possible is very important. If properly treated, many snake bites
will not have serious effects.

## Causes

Most species of snake are harmless and their bites are not life threatening.

Venomous snake bites include bites by any of the following:

    * Cobra
    * Copperhead
    * Coral snake
    * Cottonmouth (water moccasin)
    * Rattlesnake
    * Various snakes found at zoos

Most snakes will avoid people if possible, but all snakes will bite as a last
resort when threatened or surprised. If you are bitten by any snake, treat it
seriously.  

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the type of snake, but may include:

    * Bleeding from wound
    * Blurred vision
    * Burning of the skin
    * Convulsions
    * Diarrhea
    * Dizziness
    * Excessive sweating
    * Fainting
    * Fang marks in the skin
    * Fever
    * Increased thirst
    * Loss of muscle coordination
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Numbness and tingling
    * Rapid pulse
    * Tissue death
    * Severe pain
    * Skin discoloration
    * Swelling at the site of the bite
    * Weakness

Rattlesnake bites are painful when they occur. Symptoms usually begin right
away and may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Blurred vision
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Low blood pressure
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Numbness
    * Pain at site of bite
    * Paralysis
    * Rapid pulse
    * Skin color changes
    * Swelling
    * Tingling
    * Tissue damage
    * Thirst
    * Tiredness
    * Weakness
    * Weak pulse

Cottonmouth and copperhead bites are painful right when they occur. Symptoms,
which usually begin right away, may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Low blood pressure
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Numbness and tingling
    * Pain at site of bite
    * Shock
    * Skin color changes
    * Swelling
    * Thirst
    * Tiredness
    * Tissue damage
    * Weakness
    * Weak pulse

Coral snake bites may be painless at first. Major symptoms may not develop for
hours. DO NOT make the mistake of thinking you will be fine if the bite area
looks good and you are not in a lot of pain. Untreated coral snake bites can
be deadly. Symptoms may include:

    * Blurred vision
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Convulsions
    * Drowsiness
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Headache
    * Low blood pressure
    * Mouth watering (excessive salivation)
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Numbness
    * Pain and swelling at site of bite
    * Paralysis
    * Shock
    * Slurred speech
    * Swallowing difficulty 
    * Swelling of tongue and throat
    * Weakness
    * Skin color changes
    * Skin tissue damage
    * Stomach or abdominal pain
    * Weak pulse

## First Aid

Follow these steps to provide first aid:

1\. Keep the person calm. Reassure them that bites can be effectively treated
in an emergency room. Restrict movement, and keep the affected area below
heart level to reduce the flow of venom.

2\. Remove any rings or constricting items, because the affected area may
swell. Create a loose splint to help restrict movement of the area.

3\. If the area of the bite begins to swell and change color, the snake was
probably venomous.

4\. Monitor the person's vital signs \-- temperature, pulse, rate of
breathing, and blood pressure -- if possible. If there are signs of shock
(such as paleness), lay the person flat, raise the feet about a foot (30
centimeters), and cover the person with a blanket.

5\. Get medical help right away.

6\. If possible, make note of the color, shape, and size of the snake. This
may help with treatment of the bite. Do not waste time hunting for the snake,
and do not trap it or pick it up. If the snake is dead, be careful of the head
-- a snake can actually bite (from a reflex) for several hours after it's
dead.

## DO NOT

Follow these precautions:

    * DO NOT pick up the snake or try to trap it.
    * DO NOT wait for symptoms to appear if bitten. Seek immediate medical attention.
    * DO NOT allow the person to become over-exerted. If necessary, carry the person to safety.
    * DO NOT apply a tourniquet.
    * DO NOT apply cold compresses to a snake bite.
    * DO NOT apply ice or soak the wound in water.
    * DO NOT cut into a snake bite with a knife or razor.
    * DO NOT try to suck out the venom by mouth.
    * DO NOT give the person stimulants or pain medicinesÂ unless a doctor tells you to do so.
    * DO NOT give the person anything by mouth.
    * DO NOT raise the site of the bite above the level of the person's heart.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or your local emergency number if someone has been bitten by a snake.
If possible, call ahead to the emergency room so that antivenom can be ready
when the person arrives.

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts. They will give you
further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## Prevention

To prevent snake bites:

    * Avoid areas where snakes may be hiding, such as under rocks and logs.
    * Even though most snakes are not venomous, avoid picking up or playing with any snake unless you have been properly trained.
    * Don't provoke a snake. That is when many serious snake bites occur.
    * Tap ahead of you with a walking stick before entering an area where you can't see your feet. Snakes will try to avoid you if given enough warning.
    * When hiking in an area known to have snakes, wear long pants and boots if possible. 

## Alternative Names

Bites - snakes; Venomous snake bitesÂ

## Images

    * ![Snake bite on the finger](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2582t.jpg)Snake bite on the finger
    * ![Snake bite on the finger](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2583t.jpg)Snake bite on the finger
    * ![Snake bite](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8928t.jpg)Snake bite
    * ![Venomous snakes - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15022t.jpg)Venomous snakes - series
    * ![Snakebite \(venomous\) - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15046t.jpg)Snakebite (venomous) treatment - Series

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Venomous snakes.
www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/snakes/symptoms.html. Updated May 31, 2018. Accessed
June 8, 2018.

Ibister GK, Seifert SA. Envenomation. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 112.

Norris RL. Venomous snakebites in North America. In: Adams JG, ed. _Emergency
Medicine._ 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 139.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 06/08/2018.

![Animal Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalBites_thumb.jpg)Animal
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

