Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000220.htm    
                                Description: Your child is being evaluated for ear tube insertion. This is the placement of tubes in your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear tube surgery - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000220.htm

# Ear tube surgery - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child is being evaluated for ear tube insertion. This is the placement of
tubes in your child's eardrums. It is done to allow fluid behind your child's
eardrums to drain or to prevent infection. This can help your child's ears
work better.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your child's health care provider
to help you take care of your child's ears.

## Questions

Why does my child need ear tubes?

Can we try other treatments? What are the risks of the surgery?

Is it safe to wait before getting ear tubes?

    * Will it harm my child's ears if we wait longer before putting in tubes?
    * Will my child still learn to speak and read if we wait longer before putting in tubes? 

What type of anesthesia will my child need? Will my child feel any pain? What
are the risks of the anesthesia?

How long will the tubes stay in? How do the tubes come out? Do the holes where
the tubes are placed close up?

Will my child still have ear infections while the tubes are in place? Will my
child have ear infections again after the ear tubes come out?

Can my child swim or get the ears wet with tubes in?

When will my child need to follow up after surgery?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about ear tube surgery; Tympanostomy - what to ask
your doctor; Myringotomy - what to ask your doctor

## References

Casselbrant ML, Mandel EM. Acute otitis media and otitis media with effusion.
In: Lesperance MM, Flint PW, eds. _Cummings Pediatric Otolaryngology_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

Kerschner JE, Preciado D. Otitis media. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 640.

Yellon RF, Chi DH. Otolaryngology. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ,
eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 24.

## Read More

    * Earache
    * Ear discharge
    * Ear tube insertion
    * Otitis
    * Otitis media with effusion

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ear Infections

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

