

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Injury Prevention & Control

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Featured Topics

Minus

Related Pages

![Help Young People Grow Up Violence-Free](/injury/images/features/prevent-
youth-violence/growUpViolenceFree_456x294.png)

Help Young People Grow Up Violence-Free

APRIL 6, 2020

All young people deserve to grow up safely and thrive. Learn more about how
you can help prevent youth violence and #StopBullying in your community!

Learn More

![Image of a young man talking with his
doctor](/injury/images/features/manage-your-
pain/youngManTalkingToDoctor_456x294.png)

Talk to Your Doctor About Managing Your Pain

FEBRUARY 26, 2020

You and your doctor both play a role in best managing your pain.

![header-1](/injury/images/features/older-adults-mobility/header-1_1.png)

MyMobility Plan

FEBRUARY 21, 2020

1 in 4 Americans now 65 years old will live to 90+. Just like you plan for
retirement, plan ahead to stay mobile as you age.

![Image of two young women embracing](/injury/images/features/dating-
violence/partners_456x294.png)

Preventing Teen Dating Violence

FEBRUARY 13, 2020

Promote healthy relationship skills early before dating violence starts.

![Image of a young couple taking a selfie while a young man watches in the
background](/injury/images/features/prevent-stalking/stalking-
selfie_456x294.png)

Stalking: Know it. Name it. Stop it.

JANUARY 6, 2020

Learn to recognize the signs of stalking and help prevent it.

![Image of an automobile on an icey road](/injury/images/features/holiday-
road-safety/icyRoad_456x294.png)

Tips for Driving Safely This Holiday Season

DECEMBER 19, 2019

Stay safe on the roads by taking action to protect yourself and loved ones.

![Image of a stressed woman in a crowd](/injury/images/features/dealing-with-
stress/stressedWomanInCrowd_456x297.png)

Dealing with Stress

DECEMBER 13, 2019

Find out how to manage stress after a traumatic event by following CDC's tips.

![Image of a smiling older woman driving](/injury/images/features/older-
driver-safety/womanDriver_joyous_456x294.png)

Older Drivers: Stay Safe Behind the Wheel

DECEMBER 1, 2019

The risk of being injured or killed in a motor vehicle crash increases as
people age. Learn tips to stay safe.

![Image from the ACEs video of kids on a sidewalk waiting to play ball with an
adult nearby](/injury/images/features/adverse-childhood-
experiences/ACES_video_456x294.png)

We Can Prevent Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)

NOVEMBER 20, 2019

Everyone can help prevent ACEs by creating safe, stable, nurturing
relationships and environments for all children and families.

![Image of the Los Angeles freeway at rush
hour](/injury/images/features/global-road-safety/LA_freeway_456x294.png)

Road Traffic Injuries and Deaths--A Global Problem

NOVEMBER 14, 2019

Learn tips to protect yourself and others from road traffic injuries at home
or abroad.

![Image of a boy, alone and looking sad](/injury/images/features/vital-
signs/boy_neglected_456x294.png)

Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACES) (CDC Vital Signs)

NOVEMBER 5, 2019

Preventing early trauma improve adult health

![Image of two men in disagreement](/injury/images/features/intimate-partner-
violence/men_conflict_456x294.png)

Prevent Domestic Violence in Your Community

OCTOBER 28, 2019

Healthy relationship skills like communication and problem-solving can prevent
violence before it starts.

![Image of a teen driving with her father](/injury/images/features/teen-
drivers/teenDriverSafety_456x294.png)

Crash and Injury Risks for Teen Drivers

OCTOBER 18, 2019

Every day, six teens aged 16-19 die from motor vehicle crash injuries. Get
tips on how to reduce crash and injury risks.

![Image of girl being bullied](/injury/images/features/stop-
bullying/girl_bullies_456x294.png)

#StopBullying

OCTOBER 3 , 2019

Bullying negatively impacts all youth--those who are bullied, those who bully
others, and bystanders.

![Keep on Your Feet—Preventing Older Adult
Falls](/injury/images/features/older-adult-
falls/coupleWalkingInWoods_456x294.png)

Keep on Your Feet - Preventing Older Adult Falls

SEPTEMBER 23 , 2019

Falls are not an inevitable part of aging. Learn what you can do to prevent
falls.

![Child Passenger Safety](/injury/images/features/passengersafety_456px.jpg)

Child Passenger Safety

SEPTEMBER 17, 2019

Make sure the ones you love are safely buckled up in the car on every trip.

![Image of one person comforting another person by holding their clasped
hands](/injury/images/features/be-there-prevent-suicide/beThere-
preventSuicide_456x294.png)

#BeThere to Help Prevent Suicide

SEPTEMBER 10 , 2019

Everyone can help prevent suicide by knowing the warning signs and where to
get help.

![Woman placing hand on man's shoulder in
counseling](/injury/images/features/prescription-drug-overdose/prescription-
drug-overdose_456px.jpg)

America's Drug Overdose Epidemic: Data to Action

SEPTEMBER 4 , 2019

America's drug overdose crisis requires an expansive, evolving, and ongoing
response.

![Rx Awareness: Impact of an Epidemic](/injury/images/features/opioid-
epidemic-stories/stories_opioids_Mike_456x294.png)

Impact of the Opioid Epidemic: Shared Stories

AUGUST 28, 2019

Help prevent overdoses by sharing stories of lives impacted by the opioid
crisis.

![Vital Signs article on Naloxone, August 2019](/injury/images/features/vital-
signs/vitalSigns_naloxone_pharmacy_456x294.png)

Life-Saving Naloxone from Pharmacies (CDC Vital Signs)

AUGUST 6, 2019

More dispensing is needed despite progress.

![Doctor examining toddler's mother in lap and
smiling](/injury/images/features/pediatric-mtbi-guideline/url_456px.jpg)

Care of Children with Concussion (mTBI)

AUGUST 5, 2019

Clinical guidelines for care of children with mild traumatic brain injury
(mTBI), also called concussion.

![Father sitting at picnic table and holding son in
lap](/injury/images/features/parenting-essentials/parenting-
essentials_456px.jpg)

Essentials for Parenting

JUNE 10, 2019

Parenting is hard work! Learn key strategies for handling common behavior
challenges of young children.

![Sexual Violence](/injury/images/features/sexualviolence_456px_1-small.jpg)

Sexual Violence is Preventable

APRIL 1, 2019

More than 1 in 3 women and nearly 1 in 4 men have experienced sexual violence.
It can be prevented.

![Brain Safety Starts with You](/injury/images/features/brain-
safety_456px_1-small.jpg)

Brain Safety Starts with You

MARCH 18, 2019

Traumatic brain injuries (TBIs), including concussions are preventable--and
you can help.

![Child Abuse
Prevention](/injury/images/features/healthychildren_456px_1-small.jpg)

Child Abuse Prevention

MARCH 5, 2019

An estimated one in four children have experienced abuse or neglect. Stop it
before it begins.

![Visit the Injury Center press
room](/injury/images/pressroom/computer_CDCmug_180x110.png)

Visit the Injury Center Press Room

Page last reviewed: April 3, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Injury Center

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Injury Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Organization and Leadershipplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Our Approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data and Statistics (WISQARS)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Overviewplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Key Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cost of Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ten Leading Causes of Death and Injury Charts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Scientific Data, Statistics, and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nonfatal Injury Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Violent Deaths (NVDRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funded Programs, Activities and Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Core SVIPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug-Free Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tribal Violence and Injury Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Extramural Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About ERPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Notice of Funding Opportunity Announcements (NOFOs)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Board of Scientific Counselorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Meeting Minutes and Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Opioid Workgroup â 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Opioid Guideline Workgroup â 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Peer Review Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Press Roomplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Press Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expert Bios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Digital Press Kitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Featured Topicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * AllÂ Features â By Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this

Submit



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Home & Recreational Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prescription Drug Overdose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Violence Prevention

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

