Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000638.htm    
                                Description: Ear infections are one of the most common reasons parents take their children to the health care provider. The most common type of ear infection is called otitis media. It is caused by swelling and infection    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear infection - acute

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000638.htm

# Ear infection - acute

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ear infections are one of the most common reasons parents take their children
to the health care provider. The most common type of ear infection is called
otitis media. It is caused by swelling and infection of the middle ear. The
middle ear is located just behind the eardrum.

An acute ear infection starts over a short period and is painful. Ear
infections that last a long time or come and go are called chronic ear
infections.

![Middle ear infection \(otitis
media\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19324.jpg)

## Causes

The eustachian tube runs from the middle of each ear to the back of the
throat. Normally, this tube drains fluid that is made in the middle ear. If
this tube gets blocked, fluid can build up. This can lead to infection.

    * Ear infections are common in infants and children because the eustachian tubes are easily clogged.
    * Ear infections can also occur in adults, although they are less common than in children. 
![Eustachian tube](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19596.jpg)

Anything that causes the eustachian tubes to become swollen or blocked makes
more fluid build up in the middle ear behind the eardrum. Some causes are:

    * Allergies
    * Colds and sinus infections
    * Excess mucus and saliva produced during teething
    * Infected or overgrown adenoids (lymph tissue in the upper part of the throat)
    * Tobacco smoke 

Ear infections are also more likely in children who spend a lot of time
drinking from a sippy cup or bottle while lying on their back. Getting water
in the ears will not cause an acute ear infection, unless the eardrum has a
hole in it.

Acute ear infections most often occur in the winter. You cannot catch an ear
infection from someone else. But a cold that spreads among children may cause
some of them to get ear infections.

Risk factors for acute ear infections include:

    * Attending day care (especially centers with more than 6 children)
    * Changes in altitude or climate
    * Cold climate
    * Exposure to smoke
    * Family history of ear infections
    * Not being breastfed
    * Pacifier use
    * Recent ear infection
    * Recent illness of any type (because illness lowers the body's resistance to infection) 

## Symptoms

In infants, often the main sign of an ear infection is acting irritable or
crying that cannot be soothed. Many infants and children with an acute ear
infection have a fever or trouble sleeping. Tugging on the ear is not always a
sign that the child has an ear infection.

Symptoms of an acute ear infection in older children or adults include:

    * Ear pain or earache
    * Fullness in the ear
    * Feeling of general illness
    * Vomiting
    * Diarrhea
    * Hearing loss in the affected ear 

The ear infection may start shortly after a cold. Sudden drainage of yellow or
green fluid from the ear may mean the eardrum has ruptured.

All acute ear infections involve fluid behind the eardrum. At home, you can
use an electronic ear monitor to check for this fluid. You can buy this device
at a drugstore. You still need to see a health care provider to confirm an ear
infection.

## Exams and Tests

The provider will look inside the ears using an instrument called an otoscope.
This may show:

    * Areas of dullness or redness
    * Air bubbles or fluid behind the eardrum
    * Bloody fluid or pus inside the middle ear
    * A hole (perforation) in the eardrum 

The provider might recommend a hearing test if the person has a history of ear
infections.

## Treatment

Some ear infections clear on their own without antibiotics. Often, treating
the pain and allowing the body time to heal itself is all that is needed:

    * Apply a warm cloth or warm water bottle to the affected ear.
    * Use over-the-counter pain relief drops for ears. Or, ask the provider about prescription eardrops to relieve pain.
    * Take over-the-counter medicines such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen for pain or fever. DO NOT give aspirin to children. 

All children younger than 6 months with a fever or symptoms of an ear
infection should see a provider. Children who are older than 6 months may be
watched at home if they DO NOT have:

    * A fever higher than 102Â°F (38.9Â°C)
    * More severe pain or other symptoms
    * Other medical problems 

If there is no improvement or if symptoms get worse, schedule an appointment
with the provider to determine whether antibiotics are needed.

ANTIBIOTICS

A virus or bacteria can cause ear infections. Antibiotics will not help an
infection that is caused by a virus. Most providers don't prescribe
antibiotics for every ear infection. However, all children younger than 6
months with an ear infection are treated with antibiotics.

Your provider is more likely to prescribe antibiotics if your child:

    * Is under age 2
    * Has a fever
    * Appears sick
    * Does not improve in 24 to 48 hours 

If antibiotics are prescribed, it is important to take them every day and to
take all of the medicine. DO NOT stop the medicine when symptoms go away. If
the antibiotics do not seem to be working within 48 to 72 hours, contact your
provider. You may need to switch to a different antibiotic.

Side effects of antibiotics may include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Although rare, serious allergic reactions may also occur.

Some children have repeat ear infections that seem to go away between
episodes. They may receive a smaller, daily dose of antibiotics to prevent new
infections.

SURGERY

If an infection does not go away with the usual medical treatment, or if a
child has many ear infections over a short period of time, the provider may
recommend ear tubes:

    * A tiny tube is inserted into the eardrum, keeping open a small hole that allows air to get in so fluids can drain more easily.
    * Usually the tubes fall out by themselves. Those that don't fall out may be removed in the provider's office. 

If the adenoids are enlarged, removing them with surgery may be considered if
ear infections continue to occur. Removing tonsils does not seem to help
prevent ear infections.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most often, an ear infection is a minor problem that gets better. Ear
infections can be treated, but they may occur again in the future.

Most children will have slight short-term hearing loss during and right after
an ear infection. This is due to fluid in the ear. Fluid can stay behind the
eardrum for weeks or even months after the infection has cleared.

Speech or language delay is uncommon. It may occur in a child who has lasting
hearing loss from many repeated ear infections.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, a more serious infection may develop, such as

    * Mastoiditis (an infection of the bones around the skull)
    * Meningitis (an infection of the brain) 
![Mastoiditis - redness and swelling behind
ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2299.jpg)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

    * Pain, fever, or irritability do not improve within 24 to 48 hours
    * At the start, the child seems sicker than you would expect from an ear infection
    * Your child has a high fever or severe pain
    * Severe pain suddenly stops -- this may indicate a ruptured eardrum
    * Symptoms get worse
    * New symptoms appear, especially severe headache, dizziness, swelling around the ear, or twitching of the face muscles 

Let the provider know right away if a child younger than 6 months has a fever,
even if the child doesn't have other symptoms.

## Prevention

You can reduce your child's risk of ear infections with the following
measures:

    * Wash hands and toys often.
    * If possible, choose a day care that has 6 or fewer children. This can reduce your child's chances of getting a cold or other infection, and lead to fewer ear infections.
    * DO NOT use pacifiers.
    * Breastfeed -- This makes a child much less prone to ear infections. If you are bottle feeding, hold your infant in an upright, seated position.
    * DO NOT expose your child to secondhand smoke.
    * Make sure your child's immunizations are up to date. The pneumococcal vaccine prevents infections from the bacteria that most commonly cause acute ear infections and many respiratory infections.
    * DO NOT overuse antibiotics. Doing so can lead to antibiotic resistance. 

## Alternative Names

Otitis media - acute; Infection - inner ear; Middle ear infection - acute

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Middle ear infection \(otitis media\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19324t.jpg)Middle ear infection (otitis media)
    * ![Eustachian tube](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19596t.jpg)Eustachian tube
    * ![Mastoiditis - side view of head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2298t.jpg)Mastoiditis - side view of head
    * ![Mastoiditis - redness and swelling behind ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2299t.jpg)Mastoiditis - redness and swelling behind ear
    * ![Ear tube insertion - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10049t.jpg)Ear tube insertion - series

## References

Casselbrandt ML, Mandel EM. Acute otitis media and otitis media with effusion.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head &
Neck Surgery._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 195.

Haddad J, Dodhia SN. General considerations and evaluation of the ear. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson, KM. eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 654.

Hoberman A, Paradise JL, Rockette HE, Kearney DH, Bhatnagar S, Shope TR, et
al. Shortened antimicrobial treatment for acute otitis media in young
children. _N Engl J Med._ 2016;375(25):2446-2456. PMID: 28002709
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28002709.

Klein JO. Otitis externa, otitis media, and mastoiditis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

Lieberthal AS, Carroll AE, Chonmaitree T, et al. The diagnosis and management
of acute otitis media. _Pediatrics._ 2013;131(3):e964-e999. PMID: 23439909
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23439909.

Ranakusuma RW, Pitoyo Y, Safitri ED, et al, Systemic corticosteroids for acute
otitis media in children. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev._ 2018;15;3:CD012289.
PMID: 29543327 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29543327.

Rosenfeld RM, Schwartz SR, Pynnonen MA, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
tympanostomy tubes in children. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg._ 2013;149(1
Suppl):S1-S35. PMID: 23818543 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23818543.

Rosenfled RM, Shin JJ, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical practice guideline: otitis
media with effusion (update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg._ 2016;154(1
Suppl):S1-S41. PMID: 26832942 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26832942.

Vojtek I, Nordgren M, Hoet B. Impact of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines on
otitis media: A review of measurement and interpretation challenges. _Int J
Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol._ 2017;100:174-182. PMID: 28802367
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28802367.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 03/28/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

