Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001038.htm    
                                Description: A ruptured eardrum is an opening or hole in the eardrum. The eardrum is a thin piece of tissue that separates the outer and middle ear. Damage to the eardrum may harm hearing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ruptured eardrum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001038.htm

# Ruptured eardrum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A ruptured eardrum is an opening or hole in the eardrum. The eardrum is a thin
piece of tissue that separates the outer and middle ear. Damage to the eardrum
may harm hearing.

## Causes

Ear infections may cause a ruptured eardrum. This occurs more often in
children. The infection causes pus or fluid to build up behind the eardrum. As
the pressure increases, the eardrum may break open (rupture).

Damage to the eardrum can also occur from:

    * A very loud noise close to the ear, such as a gunshot
    * A rapid change in ear pressure, which may occur when flying, scuba diving, or driving in the mountains
    * Foreign objects in the ear
    * Injury to the ear (such as from a powerful slap or explosion)
    * Inserting cotton-tipped swabs or small objects into the ears to clean them 

## Symptoms

Ear pain may suddenly decrease right after your eardrum ruptures.

After the rupture, you may have:

    * Drainage from the ear (drainage may be clear, pus, or bloody)
    * Ear noise/buzzing
    * Earache or ear discomfort
    * Hearing loss in the involved ear (hearing loss may not be total)
    * Weakness of the face, or dizziness (in more severe cases) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look in your ear with an instrument called an
otoscope. If the eardrum is ruptured, the doctor will see an opening in it.
The bones of the middle ear may also be visible.

Pus draining from the ear may make it harder for the doctor to see the
eardrum.

Audiology testing can measure how much hearing has been lost.

## Treatment

You can take steps at home to treat ear pain.

    * Put warm compresses on the ear to help relieve discomfort.
    * Use medicines such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen to ease pain. 

The opening in the eardrum most often heals by itself within 2 months if it is
a small hole. Keep the ear clean and dry while it is healing.

    * Place cotton balls in the ear while showering or shampooing to prevent water from entering the ear.
    * Avoid swimming or putting your head underneath the water. 

Your provider may prescribe antibiotics (oral or ear drops) to prevent or
treat an infection.

Repair of the eardrum might be needed for larger holes or ruptures or if the
eardrum does not heal on its own. This can be done either in the office or
under anesthesia.

    * Patch the eardrum with a piece of the person's own tissue taken (called tympanoplasty). This procedure will usually take 2 to 3 hours.
    * Repair smaller holes in the eardrum by placing either gel or a special paper over the eardrum (called myringoplasty). This procedure will usually take 10 to 30 minutes. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The opening in the eardrum most often heals by itself within 2 months if it is
a small hole.

Hearing loss will be short-term if the rupture heals completely.

Rarely, other problems may occur, such as:

    * Long-term hearing loss
    * Spread of infection to the bone behind the ear (mastoiditis)
    * Long-term vertigo and dizziness
    * Chronic ear infection or ear drainage

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your pain and symptoms improve after your eardrum ruptures, you may wait
until the next day to see your provider.

Call your provider right away after your eardrum ruptures if you:

    * Are very dizzy
    * Have a fever, general ill feeling, or hearing loss
    * Have very bad pain or a loud ringing in your ear
    * Have an object in your ear that does not come out
    * Have any symptoms that last longer than 2 months after treatment

## Prevention

DO NOT insert objects into the ear canal, even to clean it. Objects stuck in
the ear should only be removed by a provider. Have ear infections treated
promptly.

## Alternative Names

Tympanic membrane perforation; Eardrum - ruptured or perforated; Perforated
eardrum

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy
    * ![Mastoiditis - side view of head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2298t.jpg)Mastoiditis - side view of head
    * ![Eardrum repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7077t.jpg)Eardrum repair - series

## References

Chole RA. Chronic otitis media, mastoiditis, and petrositis. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

Kerschner JE, Preciado D. Otitis media. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 640.

Klein JO. Otitis externa, otitis media, and mastoiditis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

