Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003016.htm    
                                Description: A mastoidectomy is surgery to remove cells in the hollow, air-filled spaces in the skull behind the ear within the mastoid bone. These cells are called mastoid air cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mastoidectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003016.htm

# Mastoidectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A mastoidectomy is surgery to remove cells in the hollow, air-filled spaces in
the skull behind the ear within the mastoid bone. These cells are called
mastoid air cells.

## Description

This surgery used to be a common way to treat an infection in mastoid air
cells. In most cases, the condition was caused by an ear infection that spread
to the bone in the skull.

You will receive general anesthesia, so you will be asleep and pain free. The
surgeon will make a cut behind the ear. A bone drill will be used to gain
access to the middle ear cavity that is behind the mastoid bone in the skull.
The infected parts of the mastoid bone or ear tissue will be removed and the
cut is stitched and covered with a bandage. The surgeon may put a drain behind
the ear to prevent fluid from collecting around the incision. The operation
will take 2 to 3 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Mastoidectomy may be used to treat:

    * Cholesteatoma
    * Complications of an ear infection (otitis media)
    * Infections of the mastoid bone that do not get better with antibiotics
    * To place a cochlear implant

## Risks

Risks may include:

    * Changes in taste
    * Dizziness
    * Hearing loss
    * Infection that persists or keeps returning
    * Noises in the ear (tinnitus)
    * Weakness of the face 

## Before the Procedure

You may need to stop taking any medicines that make it hard for your blood to
clot 2 weeks before your surgery, including aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil,
Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and some herbal supplements. Your health
care provider may ask you not to eat or drink after midnight the night before
the procedure.

## After the Procedure

You will have stiches behind your ear. You may also have a large dressing over
the operated ear. The dressing is removed the day after surgery. You may need
to stay in the hospital overnight. Your provider will give you pain medicines
and antibiotics to prevent infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Mastoidectomy successfully gets rid of the infection in the mastoid bone in
most people.

## Alternative Names

Simple mastoidectomy; Canal-wall-up mastoidectomy; Canal-wall-down
mastoidectomy; Radical mastoidectomy; Modified radical mastoidectomy; Mastoid
obliteration; Retrograde mastoidectomy; Mastoiditis - mastoidectomy;
Cholesteatoma - mastoidectomy; Otitis media - mastoidectomy

## Images

    * ![Mastoidectomy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7140t.jpg)Mastoidectomy - series

## References

Chole RA. Chronic otitis media, mastoiditis, and petrositis. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology - Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

MacDonald CB, Wood JW. Mastoid surgery. In: Myers EN, Snyderman CH, eds.
_Operative Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 134.

Stevens SM, Lambert PR. Mastoidectomy: surgical techniques. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology - Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 142.

## Review Date 8/22/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

