Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001054.htm    
                                Description: Labyrinthitis is irritation and swelling of the inner ear. It can cause vertigo and hearing loss.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Labyrinthitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001054.htm

# Labyrinthitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Labyrinthitis is irritation and swelling of the inner ear. It can cause
vertigo and hearing loss.

## Causes

Labyrinthitis is usually caused by a virus and sometimes by bacteria. Having a
cold or flu can trigger the condition. Less often, an ear infection may lead
to labyrinthitis. Other causes include allergies or certain medicines that are
bad for the inner ear.

Your inner ear is important for both hearing and balance. When you have
labyrinthitis, the parts of your inner ear become irritated and swollen. This
can make you lose your balance and cause hearing loss.

These factors raise your risk for labyrinthitis:

    * Drinking large amounts of alcohol
    * Fatigue
    * History of allergies
    * Recent viral illness, respiratory infection, or ear infection
    * Smoking
    * Stress
    * Using certain prescription or nonprescription medicines (such as aspirin) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Feeling like you are spinning, even when you are still (vertigo).
    * Your eyes moving on their own, making it hard to focus them.
    * Dizziness.
    * Hearing loss in one ear.
    * Loss of balance -- you may fall toward one side.
    * Nausea and vomiting.
    * Ringing or other noises in your ears (tinnitus). 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may give you a physical exam. You may also have
tests of your nervous system (neurological exam).

Tests can rule out other causes of your symptoms. These may include:

    * EEG (measures the electrical activity of the brain)
    * Electronystagmography, and warming and cooling the inner ear with air or water to test eye reflexes (caloric stimulation)
    * Head CT scan
    * Hearing test
    * MRI of the head

## Treatment

Labyrinthitis usually goes away within a few weeks. Treatment can help reduce
vertigo and other symptoms. Medicines that may help include:

    * Antihistamines
    * Medicines to control nausea and vomiting, such as prochlorperazine
    * Medicines to relieve dizziness, such as meclizineÂ or scopolamine
    * Sedatives, such as diazepam (Valium)
    * Corticosteroids
    * Antiviral medicines 

If you have severe vomiting, you may be admitted to the hospital.

Follow your provider's instructions for taking care of yourself at home. Doing
these things can help you manage vertigo:

    * Stay still and rest.
    * Avoid sudden movements or position changes.
    * Rest during severe episodes. Slowly resume activity. You may need help walking when you lose your balance during attacks.
    * Avoid bright lights, TV, and reading during attacks.
    * Ask your provider about balance therapy. This may help once nausea and vomiting have passed. 

You should avoid the following for 1 week after symptoms disappear:

    * Driving
    * Operating heavy machinery
    * Climbing 

A sudden dizzy spell during these activities can be dangerous.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

It takes time for labyrinthitis symptoms to go away completely.

    * Severe symptoms usually go away within a week. 
    * Most people are completely better within 2 to 3 months. 
    * Older adults are more likely to have dizziness that lasts longer.

In very rare cases, hearing loss is permanent.

## Possible Complications

People with severe vertigo may get dehydrated due to frequent vomiting.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have dizziness, vertigo, loss of balance, or other symptoms of labyrinthitis
    * You have hearing loss 

Call 911 or your local emergency number if you have any of the following
severe symptoms:

    * Convulsions
    * Double vision
    * Fainting
    * Vomiting a lot
    * Slurred speech
    * Vertigo that occurs with a fever of more than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Weakness or paralysis 

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent labyrinthitis.

## Alternative Names

Bacterial labyrinthitis; Serous labyrinthitis; Neuronitis - vestibular;
Vestibular neuronitis; Viral neurolabyrinthitis; Vestibular neuritis;
Labyrinthitis - vertigo: Labyrinthitis - dizziness; Labyrinthitis - vertigo;
Labyrinthitis - hearing loss

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Hearing and equilibrium. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 400.

Boomsaad ZE, Telian SA, Patil PG. Treatment of intractable vertigo. In: Winn
HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 105.

Goddard JC, Slattery WH. Infections of the labyrinth. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 153.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dizziness and
Vertigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dizziness_thumb.jpg)Dizziness and
Vertigo _Read more_

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

