Link: https://medlineplus.gov/spinalcordinjuries.html    
                                Description: Spinal cord injuries disrupt signals between your brain and body. This can cause problems like weakness and paralysis. Read about treatment and rehab.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Spinal Cord Injuries

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/spinalcordinjuries.html

#  Spinal Cord Injuries

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your spinal cord is a bundle of nerves that runs down the middle of your back.
It carries signals back and forth between your body and your brain. A spinal
cord injury disrupts the signals. Spinal cord injuries usually begin with a
blow that fractures (breaks) or dislocates your vertebrae, the bone disks that
make up your spine. Most injuries don't cut through your spinal cord. Instead,
they cause damage when pieces of vertebrae tear into cord tissue or press down
on the nerve parts that carry signals.

Spinal cord injuries can be complete or incomplete. With a complete spinal
cord injury, the cord can't send signals below the level of the injury. As a
result, you are paralyzed below the injury. With an incomplete injury, you
have some movement and sensation below the injury.

A spinal cord injury is a medical emergency. Immediate treatment can reduce
long-term effects. Treatments may include medicines, braces or traction to
stabilize the spine, and surgery. Later treatment usually includes medicines
and rehabilitation therapy. Mobility aids and assistive devices may help you
to get around and do some daily tasks.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * FAQs about Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) (University of Alabama at Birmingham)
    * Overview of Spinal Cord Disorders (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Spinal Cord Injury ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Spinal cord injury - Symptoms and causes (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Spinal Cord Injury: Hope through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * What Is Spinal Cord Injury? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * How Is Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) Diagnosed? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
    * Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) - Spine (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Spinal Injury: First Aid (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * What Are the Treatments for Spinal Cord Injury (SCI)? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Bladder Management (University of Washington, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine)
    * Depression and Spinal Cord Injury (University of Washington, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine)
    * Dressing with Ease, Style and Comfort (ALS Association) \- PDF
    * Maintaining Healthy Skin -- Part 1 (University of Washington, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine)
    * Maintaining Healthy Skin -- Part 2 (University of Washington, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine)
    * Taking Care of Pressure Sores (University of Washington, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine)
    * Taking Care of Your Bowels--The Basics (University of Washington, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine)
    * Weight Management Following SCI (Spinal Cord Injury) (University of Alabama at Birmingham) \- PDF

## Specifics

    * Central Cord Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Central Pain Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Spinal Cord Infarction ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Basics of SCI Rehabilitation ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Hill Foundation for Families Living with Disabilities)
    * Preventing Pressure Sores ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Hill Foundation for Families Living with Disabilities)
    * Sex and Fertility After SCI ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Hill Foundation for Families Living with Disabilities)
    * Spinal Cord Injury 101 ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Hill Foundation for Families Living with Disabilities)

## Statistics and Research

    * Spinal Cord Injury: Facts and Figures at a Glance (University of Alabama at Birmingham) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Spinal Cord Injuries ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Management of the Patient with Chronic Spinal Cord Injury.
    * Article: C5 palsy after C5/6/7 posterior foraminal decompression: A case report.
    * Article: Spinal epidural involvement in adult Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH): A case...
    * Spinal Cord Injuries -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Life and Death of a Neuron ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * What are the Causes of Spinal Cord Injury? (Hill Foundation for Families Living with Disabilities)

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician (American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Spinal Cord Injury (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)

## Patient Handouts

    * Daily bowel care program (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Self catheterization - female (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Self catheterization - male (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Spinal cord stimulation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Spinal cord trauma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Spinal injury (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Suprapubic catheter care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Spinal Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Autonomic hyperreflexia
    * Daily bowel care program
    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Lumbar MRI scan
    * Self catheterization - female
    * Self catheterization - male
    * Spinal cord stimulation
    * Spinal cord trauma
    * Spinal injury
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Thoracic spine CT scan
    * Urinary catheters
    * Urine drainage bags

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Paralysis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Spinal Cord Injuries is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 22 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

