Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001253.htm    
                                Description: Perichondritis is an infection of the skin and tissue surrounding the cartilage of the outer ear.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Perichondritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001253.htm

# Perichondritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Perichondritis is an infection of the skin and tissue surrounding the
cartilage of the outer ear.

## Causes

Cartilage is the thick tissue that creates the shape of the nose and the outer
ear. All cartilage has a thin layer of tissue around it called the
perichondrium. This covering helps provide nutrients to the cartilage.

The most common type of bacteria that causes perichondritis infection is
_Pseudomonas aeruginosa_.

Perichondritis is usually caused by an injury to the ear due to:

    * Ear surgery
    * Ear piercing (especially piercing of the cartilage)
    * Contact sports
    * Trauma to the side of the head  

Ear piercing through the cartilage is probably the major risk factor today.
Surgery, burns, and acupuncture also increase the risk of infection.

Perichondritis can lead to chondritis, which is an infection of the cartilage
itself.Â This can cause severe damage to the ear structure.

## Symptoms

A painful, swollen, red ear is the most common symptom. At first, the
infection will look like a skin infection, but it quickly worsens and involves
the perichondrium.

The redness usually surrounds an area of injury, such as a cut or scrape.
There may also be fever. In more severe cases, fluid will drain from the
wound.

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is based on the medical history and examination of the ear. If there
is a history of trauma to the ear and the ear is red and very tender, then
perichondritis is diagnosed. There may be a change in the normal shape of the
ear. The ear may look swollen.

## Treatment

Treatment consists of antibiotics, either by mouth or directly into the
bloodstream through an intravenous (IV) line. Antibiotics can be given for 10
days to several weeks. If there is a trapped collection of pus, you may need
surgery. The surgery is done to drain this fluid and remove any dead skin and
cartilage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on how quickly the infection is diagnosed and
treated. If antibiotics are taken early, full recovery is expected. If the
infection involves the ear cartilage, more involved treatment is needed.

## Possible Complications

If the infection spreads to the ear cartilage, part of the ear may die and
need to be surgically removed. If this occurs, plastic surgery may be needed
to restore the ear to its normal shape.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have any trauma to your ear (a scratch, blow, or piercing) and then
develop pain and redness over the stiff part of the outer ear, contact your
health care provider. You may need to take antibiotics.

## Prevention

Avoid piercing your ear through the cartilage. Piercing the ear lobeÂ is a
better option. The popularity of cartilage piercing has led to a significant
increase in the number of perichondritis and chondritis infections.

## References

Brant JA, Ruckenstein MJ. Infections of the external ear. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 137.

Haddad J, Keesecker S. External otitis (otitis externa). In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 639.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cartilage
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CartilageDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cartilage
Disorders _Read more_

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

