Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003015.htm    
                                Description: Ear tube insertion involves placing tubes through the eardrums. The eardrum is the thin layer of tissue that separates the outer and middle ear.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear tube insertion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003015.htm

# Ear tube insertion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ear tube insertion involves placing tubes through the eardrums. The eardrum is
the thin layer of tissue that separates the outer and middle ear.

Note: This article focuses on ear tube insertion in children. However, most of
the information could also apply to adults with similar symptoms or problems.

## Description

While the child is asleep and pain-free (general anesthesia), a small surgical
cut is made in the eardrum. Any fluid that has collected behind the eardrum is
removed with suction through this cut.

Then, a small tube is placed through the cut in the eardrum. The tube allows
air to flow in so that pressure is the same on both sides of the eardrum.
Also, trapped fluid can flow out of the middle ear. This prevents hearing loss
and reduces the risk of ear infections.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The buildup of fluid behind your child's eardrum may cause some hearing loss.
But most children do not have long-term damage to their hearing or speech,
even when the fluid is there for many months.

Ear tube insertion may be done when fluid builds up behind your child's
eardrum and:

    * Does not go away after 3 months and both ears are affected
    * Does not go away after 6 months and fluid is only in one ear

Ear infections that do not go away with treatment or that keep coming back are
also reasons for placing an ear tube. If an infection does not go away with
treatment, or if a child has many ear infections over a short period of time,
the doctor may recommend ear tubes.

Ear tubes are also sometimes used for people of any age who have:

    * A severe ear infection that spreads to nearby bones (mastoiditis) or the brain, or that damages nearby nerves
    * Injury to the ear after sudden changes in pressure from flying or deep sea diving

## Risks

Risks of ear tube insertion include:

    * Drainage from the ear.
    * Hole in the eardrum that does not heal after the tube falls out.

Most of the time, these problems do not last long. They also do not often
cause problems in children. Your health care provider can explain these
complications in more detail.

The risks for any anesthesia are:

    * Breathing problems
    * Reactions to medicines 

The risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

## Before the Procedure

Your child's ear doctor may ask for a medical history and physical exam of
your child before the procedure is done. A hearing test is also recommended
before the procedure is done.

Always tell your child's provider:

    * What drugs your child is taking, including drugs, herbs, and vitamins you bought without a prescription.
    * What allergies your child may have to any medicines, latex, tape, or skin cleaner. 

On the day of the surgery:

    * Your child may be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before the surgery.
    * Give your child a small sip of water with any drugs you have been told to give your child.
    * Your child's provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.
    * The provider will make sure your child is healthy enough for surgery. This means your child has no signs of illness or infection. If your child is ill, the surgery may be delayed. 

## After the Procedure

Children most often stay in the recovery room for a short time and leave the
hospital the same day as the ear tubes are inserted. Your child may be groggy
and fussy for an hour or so while waking up from anesthesia. Your child's
provider may prescribe ear drops or antibiotics for a few days after the
surgery. Your child's doctor may also ask that you keep the ears dry for a
specific period of time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After this procedure, most parents report that their children:

    * Have fewer ear infections
    * Recover more quickly from infections 

If the tubes do not fall out on their own in a few years, an ear specialist
may have to remove them. If ear infections return after the tubes fall out,
another set of ear tubes can be inserted.

## Alternative Names

Myringotomy; Tympanostomy; Ear tube surgery; Pressure equalization tubes;
Ventilating tubes; Otitis - tubes; Ear infection - tubes; Otitis media - tubes

## Patient Instructions

    * Ear tube surgery - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Ear tube insertion - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10049t.jpg)Ear tube insertion - series

## References

Casselbrandt ML, Mandel EM. Acute otitis media and otitis media with effusion.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head
and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 195.

Kerschner JE, Preciado D. Otitis media. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 640.

Klein JO. Otitis externa, otitis media, and mastoiditis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

Rosenfeld RM, Schwartz SR, Pynnonen MA, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
tympanostomy tubes in children. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg._ 2013;149(1
Suppl):S1-35. PMID: 23818543 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23818543.Â

Wallace IF, Berkman ND, Lohr KN, Harrison MF, Kimple AJ, Steiner MJ. Surgical
treatments for otitis media with effusion: a systematic review. _Pediatrics_.
2014;133(2):296-311. PMID: 24394689 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24394689.

## Review Date 2/13/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

