Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003014.htm    
                                Description: Eardrum repair refers to one or more surgical procedures that are done to correct a tear or other damage to the eardrum (tympanic membrane).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eardrum repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003014.htm

# Eardrum repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eardrum repair refers to one or more surgical procedures that are done to
correct a tear or other damage to the eardrum (tympanic membrane).

Ossiculoplasty is the repair of the small bones in the middle ear.

## Description

Most adults (and all children) receive general anesthesia. This means you'll
be asleep and unable to feel pain. Sometimes, local anesthesia is used along
with medicine that makes you sleepy.

The surgeon will make a cut behind the ear or inside the ear canal.

Depending on the problem, the surgeon will:

    * Clean out any infection or dead tissue on the eardrum or in the middle ear.
    * Patch the eardrum with a piece of the patient's own tissue taken from a vein or muscle sheath (called tympanoplasty). This procedure will usually take 2 to 3 hours.
    * Remove, replace, or repair 1 or more of the 3 little bones in the middle ear (called ossiculoplasty).
    * Repair smaller holes in the eardrum by placing either gel or a special paper over the eardrum (called myringoplasty). This procedure will usually take 10 to 30 minutes.

The surgeon will use an operating microscope to view and repair the eardrum or
the small bones.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The eardrum is between the outer ear and the middle ear. It vibrates when
sound waves strike it. When the eardrum is damaged or has a hole in it,
hearing may be reduced and ear infections may be more likely.

Causes of holes or openings in the eardrum include:

    * A bad ear infection
    * Sticking something inside the ear canal
    * Surgery to place ear tubes
    * Trauma

If the eardrum has a small hole, myringoplasty may work to close it. Most of
the time, your doctor will wait at least 6 weeks after the hole developed
before suggesting surgery.

Tympanoplasty may be done if:

    * The eardrum has a larger hole or opening
    * There is a chronic infection in the ear, and antibiotics do not help
    * There is a buildup of extra tissue around or behind the eardrum

These same problems can also harm the very small bones (ossicles) that are
right behind the eardrum. If this happens, your surgeon may perform an
ossiculoplasty.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks for this procedure include:

    * Damage to the facial nerve or nerve controlling the sense of taste
    * Damage to the small bones in the middle ear, causing hearing loss
    * Dizziness or vertigo
    * Incomplete healing of the hole in the eardrum
    * Worsening of hearing, or, in rare cases, complete loss of hearing

## Before the Procedure

Tell the health care provider:

    * What allergies you or your child may have to any medicines, latex, tape, or skin cleanser
    * What medicines you or your child is taking, including herbs and vitamins you bought without a prescription 

On the day of the surgery for children:

    * FollowÂ instructions about not eating or drinking. For infants, this includes breastfeeding.
    * Take any needed medicines with a small sip of water.
    * If you or your child is ill on the morning of surgery, call the surgeon right away. The procedure will need to be rescheduled.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You or your child may leave the hospital the same day as the surgery, but may
need to stay the night in case of any complications.

To protect the ear after surgery:

    * Packing will be placed in the ear for the first 5 to 7 days.
    * Sometimes a dressing covers the ear itself.

Until your provider says it is OK:

    * Do not allow water to get into the ear. When showering or washing your hair, place cotton in the outer ear and cover it with petroleum jelly. Or, you can wear a shower cap.
    * Do not "pop" your ears or blow your nose. If you need to sneeze, do so with your mouth. Draw any mucus in your nose back into your throat.
    * Avoid air travel and swimming.

Gently wipe away any ear drainage on the outside of the ear. You may get
eardrops the first week. Do not put anything else into the ear.

If you have stitches behind the ear and they get wet, gently dry the area. Do
not rub.

You or your child may feel pulsing, or hear popping, clicking, or other sounds
in the ear. The ear may feel full or as if it is filled with liquid. There may
be sharp, shooting pains off and on soon after the surgery.

To avoid catching a cold, stay away from crowded places and people with cold
symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the pain and symptoms are completely relieved. Hearing loss is
minor.

The outcome may not be as good if the bones in the middle ear need to be
reconstructed, along with the eardrum.

## Alternative Names

Myringoplasty; Tympanoplasty; Ossiculoplasty; Ossicular reconstruction;
Tympanosclerosis - surgery; Ossicular discontinuity - surgery; Ossicular
fixation - surgery

## Images

    * ![Eardrum repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7077t.jpg)Eardrum repair - series

## References

Adams ME, El-Kashlan HK. Tympanoplasty and ossiculoplasty. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 141.

Fayad JN, Sheehy JL. Tympanoplasty: outer surface grafting technique. In:
Brackmann DE, Shelton C, Arriaga MA, eds. _Otologic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

