Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003046.htm    
                                Description: An earache is a sharp, dull, or burning pain in one or both ears. The pain may last a short time or be ongoing. Related conditions include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Earache

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003046.htm

# Earache

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An earache is a sharp, dull, or burning pain in one or both ears. The pain may
last a short time or be ongoing. Related conditions include:

    * Otitis media
    * Swimmer's ear
    * Malignant otitis externa
![Medical findings based on ear
anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1126.jpg)![Ear
anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1092.jpg)

## Considerations

The symptoms of an ear infection may include:

    * Ear pain
    * Fever
    * Fussiness
    * Increased crying
    * Irritability 

Many children will have minor hearing loss during or right after an ear
infection. Most of the time, the problem goes away. Lasting hearing loss is
rare, but the risk increases with the number of infections.

## Causes

The eustachian tube runs from the middle part of each ear to the back of the
throat. This tube drains fluid that is made in the middle ear. If the
eustachian tube becomes blocked, fluid can build up. This may lead to pressure
behind the eardrum or an ear infection.

Ear pain in adults is less likely to be from an ear infection. Pain that you
feel in the ear may be coming from another place, such as your teeth, the
joint in your jaw (temporomandibular joint), or your throat. This is called
"referred" pain.

Causes of ear pain may include:

    * Arthritis of the jaw
    * Short-term ear infection
    * Long-term ear infection
    * Ear injury from pressure changes (from high altitudes and other causes)
    * Object stuck in the ear or buildup of ear wax
    * Hole in the eardrum
    * Sinus infection
    * Sore throat
    * Temporomandibular joint syndrome (TMJ)
    * Tooth infection

Ear pain in a child or infant may be due to infection. Other causes may
include:

    * Ear canal irritation from cotton-tipped swabs
    * Soap or shampoo staying in the ear 

## Home Care

The following steps may help an earache:

    * Place a cold pack or cold wet washcloth on the outer ear for 20 minutes to reduce pain.
    * Chewing may help relieve the pain and pressure of an ear infection. (Gum can be a choking hazard for young children.)
    * Resting in an upright position instead of lying down can reduce pressure in the middle ear.
    * Over-the-counter ear drops can be used to relieve pain, as long as the eardrum has not ruptured.
    * Over-the-counter pain relievers, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, can provide relief for children and adults with an earache. (DO NOT give aspirin to children.) 

For ear pain caused by a change of altitude, such as on an airplane:

    * Swallow or chew gum as the plane descends.
    * Allow infants to suck on a bottle or breastfeed. 

The following steps can help prevent earaches:

    * Avoid smoking near children. Secondhand smoke is a major cause of ear infections in children.
    * Prevent outer ear infections by not putting objects in the ear.
    * Dry the ears well after bathing or swimming.
    * Take steps to control allergies. Try to avoid allergy triggers.
    * Try a steroid nasal spray to help reduce ear infections. (However, over-the-counter antihistamines and decongestants DO NOT prevent ear infections.) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your child has a high fever, severe pain, or seems sicker than is usual for an ear infection.
    * Your child has new symptoms such as dizziness, headache, swelling around the ear, or weakness in the face muscles.
    * Severe pain suddenly stops (this may be a sign of a ruptured eardrum).
    * Symptoms (pain, fever, or irritability) get worse or do not improve within 24 to 48 hours. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam and look at the ear, nose, and throat
areas.

Pain, tenderness, or redness of the mastoid bone behind the ear on the skull
is often a sign of a serious infection.

## Alternative Names

Otalgia; Pain - ear; Ear pain

## Patient Instructions

    * Ear tube surgery - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy

## References

Bauer CA, Jenkins HA. Otologic symptoms and syndromes. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. C _ummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery._ 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 156.

Haddad J, Dodhia SN. General considerations in evaluation of the ear. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 654.

Klein JO. Otitis externa, otitis media, and mastoiditis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 03/28/2019 by by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

