Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000619.htm    
                                Description: Chronic ear infection is fluid, swelling, or an infection behind the eardrum that does not go away or keeps coming back. It causes long-term or permanent damage to the ear. It most often involves a hole    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear infection - chronic

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000619.htm

# Ear infection - chronic

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic ear infection is fluid, swelling, or an infection behind the eardrum
that does not go away or keeps coming back. It causes long-term or permanent
damage to the ear. It most often involves a hole in the eardrum that does not
heal.

![Middle ear infection \(otitis
media\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19324.jpg)

## Causes

The eustachian tube runs from the middle of each ear to the back of the
throat. This tube drains fluid made in the middle ear. If the eustachian tube
becomes blocked, fluid can build up. When this happens, infection can occur. A
chronic ear infection develops when fluid or an infection behind the eardrum
does not go away.

![Middle ear infection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19620.jpg)

A chronic ear infection may be caused by:

    * An acute ear infection that does not completely go away
    * Repeated ear infections 
![Eustachian tube](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19596.jpg)

"Suppurative chronic otitis" is a phrase health care providers use to describe
an eardrum that keeps rupturing, draining, or swelling in the middle ear or
mastoid area and does not go away.

Ear infections are more common in children because their eustachian tubes are
shorter, narrower, and more horizontal than in adults. Chronic ear infections
are much less common than acute ear infections.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a chronic ear infection may be less severe than symptoms of an
acute infection. The problem may go unnoticed and untreated for a long time.

Symptoms may include:

    * Ear pain or discomfort that is usually mild and feels like pressure in the ear
    * Fever, usually low-grade
    * Fussiness in infants
    * Pus-like drainage from the ear
    * Hearing loss

Symptoms may continue or come and go. They may occur in one or both ears.

## Exams and Tests

The provider will examine the ears. This may reveal:

    * Dullness, redness in the middle ear
    * Air bubbles in the middle ear
    * Thick fluid in the middle ear
    * Eardrum that sticks to the bones in the middle ear
    * Draining fluid from the eardrum
    * A hole (perforation) in the eardrum
    * An eardrum that bulges out or pulls back inward (collapses) 

Tests may include:

    * Cultures of the fluid may show bacteria, and these bacteria may be harder to treat than the bacteria commonly involved in an acute ear infection.
    * A CT scan of the head or mastoids may show that the infection has spread beyond the middle ear.
    * Hearing tests may be needed. 

## Treatment

The provider may prescribe antibiotics if the infection is caused by bacteria.
These medicines may need to be taken for a long time. They can be given by
mouth or into a vein (intravenously).

If there is a hole in the eardrum, antibiotic ear drops are used. The provider
may recommend using a mild acidic solution (such as vinegar and water) for a
hard-to-treat infected ear that has a hole (perforation). A surgeon may need
to clean out (debride) tissue that has gathered inside the ear.

Other surgeries that may be needed include:

    * Surgery to clean the infection out of the mastoid bone (mastoidectomy)
    * Surgery to repair or replace the small bones in the middle ear
    * Repair of the eardrum
    * Ear tube surgery

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Chronic ear infections most often respond to treatment. However, your child
may need to keep taking medicines for several months.

Chronic ear infections are not life threatening. However, they can be
uncomfortable and may result in hearing loss and other serious complications.

## Possible Complications

A chronic ear infection may cause permanent changes to the ear and nearby
bones, including:

    * Infection of the mastoid bone behind the ear (mastoiditis)
    * Ongoing drainage from a hole in the eardrum that does not heal, or after the ear tubes are inserted
    * Cyst in the middle ear (cholesteatoma)
    * Hardening of the tissue in the middle ear (tympanosclerosis)
    * Damage to, or wearing away of the bones of the middle ear, which help with hearing
    * Paralysis of the face
    * Inflammation around the brain (epidural abscess) or in the brain
    * Damage to the part of the ear that helps with balance

Hearing loss from damage to the middle ear may slow language and speech
development. This is more likely if both ears are affected.

Permanent hearing loss is rare, but the risk increases with the number and
length of infections.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You or your child has signs of a chronic ear infection
    * An ear infection does not respond to treatment
    * New symptoms develop during or after treatment 

## Prevention

Getting prompt treatment for an acute ear infection may reduce the risk of
developing a chronic ear infection. Have a follow-up exam with your provider
after an ear infection has been treated to make sure that it is completely
cured.

## Alternative Names

Middle ear infection - chronic; Otitis media - chronic; Chronic otitis media;
Chronic ear infection

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Middle ear infection \(otitis media\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19324t.jpg)Middle ear infection (otitis media)
    * ![Middle ear infection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19620t.jpg)Middle ear infection
    * ![Eustachian tube](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19596t.jpg)Eustachian tube
    * ![Ear tube insertion - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10049t.jpg)Ear tube insertion - series

## References

Chole RA. Chronic otitis media, mastoiditis, and petrositis. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery.
_6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

Haddad J, Dodhia SN. General considerations in evaluation of the ear. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, et al. eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics._ 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 654.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Otitis media. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds.
_Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 105.

Rosenfeld RM, Schwartz SR, Pynnonen MA, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
Tympanostomy tubes in children. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg._ 2013;149(1
Suppl):S1-S35. PMID: 23818543 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23818543.

Rosenfled RM, Shin JJ, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical practice guideline: otitis
media with effusion (update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg._ 2016;154(1
Suppl):S1-S41. PMID: 26832942 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26832942.

Steele DW, Adam GP, Di M, Halladay CH, Balk EM, Trikalinos TA. Effectiveness
of tympanostomy tubes for otitis media: a meta-analysis. _Pediatrics._
2017;139(6). pii: e20170125. PMID: 28562283
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28562283.

Venekamp RP, Burton MJ, van Dongen TM, van der Heijden GJ, van Zon A, Schilder
AG. Antibiotics for otitis media with effusion in children. _Cochrane Database
Syst Rev._ 2016;12;(6):CD009163. PMID: 27290722
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27290722.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 03/28/19 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

