Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007010.htm    
                                Description: Otitis media with effusion (OME)Â is thick or sticky fluid behind the eardrum in the middle ear. It occurs without an ear infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Otitis media with effusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007010.htm

# Otitis media with effusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Otitis media with effusion (OME)Â is thick or sticky fluid behind the eardrum
in the middle ear. It occurs without an ear infection.

## Causes

The Eustachian tube connects the inside of the ear to the back of the throat.
This tube helps drain fluid to prevent it from building up in the ear. The
fluid drains from the tube and is swallowed.

OME and ear infections are connected in two ways:

    * After most ear infections have been treated, fluid (an effusion) remains in the middle ear for a few days or weeks.
    * When the Eustachian tube is partially blocked, fluid builds up in the middle ear. Bacteria inside the ear become trapped and begin to grow. This may lead to an ear infection. 

The following can cause swelling of the Eustachian tube lining that leads to
increased fluid:

    * Allergies
    * Irritants (particularly cigarette smoke)
    * Respiratory infections

The following can cause the Eustachian tube to close or become blocked:

    * Drinking while lying on your back
    * Sudden increases in air pressure (such as descending in an airplane or on a mountain road) 

Getting water in a baby's ears will not lead to a blocked tube.

OME is most common in winter or early spring, but it can occur at any time of
year. It can affect people of any age. It occurs most often in children under
age 2, but is rare in newborns.

Younger children get OME more often than older children or adults for several
reasons:

    * The tube is shorter, more horizontal, and straighter, making it easier for bacteria to enter.
    * The tube is floppier, with a tinier opening that's easy to block.
    * Young children get more colds because it takes time for the immune system to be able to recognize and ward off cold viruses. 

The fluid in OME is often thin and watery. In the past, it was thought that
the fluid got thicker the longer it was present in the ear. ("Glue ear" is a
common name given to OME with thick fluid.) However, fluid thickness is now
thought to beÂ related to the ear itself, rather than to how long the fluid is
present.

## Symptoms

Unlike children with an ear infection, children with OME do not act sick.

OME often does not have obvious symptoms.

Older children and adults often complain of muffled hearing or a sense of
fullness in the ear. Younger children may turn up the television volume
because of hearing loss.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may find OME while checking your child's ears after
an ear infection has been treated.

The provider will examine the eardrum and look for certain changes, such as:

    * Air bubbles on the surface of the eardrum
    * Dullness of the eardrum when a light is used
    * Eardrum that does not seem to move when little puffs of air are blown at it
    * Fluid behind the eardrum

A test called tympanometryÂ is an accurate tool for diagnosing OME. The
results of this test can help tell the amount and thickness of the fluid.

The fluid in the middle ear can be accurately detected with:

    * Acoustic otoscope
    * Reflectometer: A portable device

An audiometer or other type of formal hearing test may be done. This can help
the provider decide on treatment.

## Treatment

Most providers will not treat OME at first, unless there are also signs of an
infection. Instead, they will recheck the problem in 2 to 3 months.

Some children who have had repeat ear infections may receive a small, daily
dose of antibiotics to prevent new infections.

You can make the following changes to help clear up the fluid behind the
eardrum:

    * Avoid cigarette smoke
    * Encourage infants to breastfeed
    * Treat allergies by staying away from triggers (such as dust). Adults and older children may be given allergy medicines.

Most often the fluid will clear on its own. Your provider may suggest watching
the condition for a while to see if it is getting worse before recommending
treatment.

If the fluid is still present after 6 weeks, the provider may recommend:

    * Continuing to watch the problem
    * A hearing test
    * A single trial of antibiotics (if they were not given earlier)

If the fluid is still present at 8 to 12 weeks, antibiotics may be tried.
These medicines are not always helpful.

At some point, the child's hearing should be tested.

If there is significant hearing loss (more than 20 decibels), antibiotics or
ear tubes might be needed.

If the fluid is still present after 4 to 6 months, tubes are probably needed,
even if there is no major hearing loss.

Sometimes the adenoids must be taken out for the Eustachian tube to work
properly.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

OME most often goes away on its own over a few weeks or months. Treatment may
speed up this process. Glue ear may not clear up as quickly as OME with a
thinner fluid.

OME is most often not life threatening. Most children do not have long-term
damage to their hearing or speaking ability, even when the fluid remains for
many months.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You think you or your child might have OME. (You should continue to watch the condition until the fluid has disappeared.)
    * New symptoms develop during or after treatment for this disorder.

## Prevention

Helping your child reduce the risk of ear infectionsÂ can help prevent OME.

Â

## Alternative Names

OME; Secretory otitis media; Serous otitis media; Silent otitis media; Silent
ear infection; Glue ear

## Patient Instructions

    * Ear tube surgery - what to ask your doctor 
    * Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Middle ear infection \(otitis media\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19324t.jpg)Middle ear infection (otitis media)

## References

Kerschner JE, Preciado D. Otitis media. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 640.

Klein JO. Otitis externa, otitis media, and mastoiditis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

Mazer BD. Otitis media. In: Leung DYM, Szefler SJ, Bonilla FA, Akdis CA,
Sampson HA, eds. _Pediatric Allergy: Principles and Practice_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Rosenfeld RM, Pynnonen MA, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
Otitis media with effusion executive summary (update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck
Surg_. 2016;154(2):201-214. PMID 26833645
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26833645.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

