Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001034.htm    
                                Description: Mastoiditis is an infection of the mastoid bone of the skull. The mastoid is located just behind the ear.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mastoiditis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001034.htm

# Mastoiditis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mastoiditis is an infection of the mastoid bone of the skull. The mastoid is
located just behind the ear.

## Causes

Mastoiditis is most often caused by a middle ear infection (acute otitis
media). The infection may spread from the ear to the mastoid bone. The bone
has a honeycomb-like structure that fills with infected material and may break
down.

The condition is most common in children. Before antibiotics, mastoiditis was
one of the leading causes of death in children. The condition does not occur
very often today. It is also much less dangerous.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Drainage from the ear
    * Ear pain or discomfort
    * Fever, may be high or suddenly increase
    * Headache
    * Hearing loss
    * Redness of the ear or behind the ear
    * Swelling behind the ear, may cause ear to stick out or feel as if it is filled with fluid

## Exams and Tests

An exam of the head may reveal signs of mastoiditis. The following tests may
show an abnormality of the mastoid bone:

    * CT scan of the ear
    * Head CT scan

A culture of drainage from the ear may show bacteria.

## Treatment

Mastoiditis may be hard to treat because the medicine may not reach deeply
into the bone. The condition sometimes requires repeated or long-term
treatment. The infection is treated with antibiotic injections, followed by
antibiotics taken by mouth.

Surgery to remove part of the bone and drain the mastoid (mastoidectomy) may
be needed if antibiotic treatment does not work. Surgery to drain the middle
ear through the eardrum (myringotomy) may be needed to treat the middle ear
infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Mastoiditis can be cured. However, it may be hard to treat and may come back.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Destruction of the mastoid bone
    * Dizziness or vertigo
    * Epidural abscess
    * Facial paralysis
    * Meningitis
    * Partial or complete hearing loss
    * Spread of infection to the brain or throughout the body

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of mastoiditis.

Also call if:

    * You have an ear infection that does not respond to treatment or is followed by new symptoms.
    * Your symptoms do not respond to treatment.

## Prevention

Prompt and thorough treatment of ear infections reduces the risk for
mastoiditis.

## Images

    * ![Mastoiditis - side view of head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2298t.jpg)Mastoiditis - side view of head
    * ![Mastoiditis - redness and swelling behind ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2299t.jpg)Mastoiditis - redness and swelling behind ear
    * ![Mastoidectomy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7140t.jpg)Mastoidectomy - series

## References

Chole RA. Chronic otitis media, mastoiditis, and petrositis. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund VJ, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

Klein JO. Otitis externa, otitis media, and mastoiditis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
62.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

