Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000622.htm    
                                Description: Swimmer    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swimmer's ear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000622.htm

# Swimmer's ear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Swimmer's ear is inflammation, irritation, or infection of the outer ear and
ear canal. The medical term for swimmer's ear is otitis externa.

Swimmer's ear may be sudden and short-term (acute) or long-term (chronic).

## Causes

Swimmer's ear is more common among children in their teens and young adults.
It may occur with a middle ear infection or a respiratory infection such as a
cold.

Swimming in unclean water can lead to swimmer's ear. Bacteria commonly often
found in water can cause ear infections. Rarely, the infection may be caused
by a fungus.

Other causes of swimmer's ear include:

    * Scratching the ear or inside the ear
    * Getting something stuck in the ear

Trying to clean (wax from the ear canal) with cotton swabs or small objects
can damage the skin.

Long-term (chronic) swimmer's ear may be due to:

    * Allergic reaction to something placed in the ear
    * Chronic skin conditions, such as eczema or psoriasis

## Symptoms

Symptoms of swimmer's ear include:

    * Drainage from the ear \-- yellow, yellow-green, pus-like, or foul smelling
    * Ear pain, which may get worse when you pull on the outer ear
    * Hearing loss
    * Itching of the ear or ear canal 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look inside your ears. The ear canal area will
look red and swollen. The skin inside the ear canal may be scaly or shedding.

Touching or moving the outer ear will increase the pain. The eardrum may be
hard to see because of a swelling in the outer ear. The eardrum may have a
hole in it. This is called a perforation.

A sample of fluid may be removed from the ear and sent to a lab to look for
bacteria or fungus.

## Treatment

In most cases, you will need to use ear antibiotic drops for 10 to 14 days. If
the ear canal is very swollen, a wick may be put into the ear. The wick will
allow the drops to travel to the end of the canal. Your provider can show you
how to do this.

Other treatments may include:

    * Antibiotics taken by mouth if you have a middle ear infection or infection that spreads beyond the ear
    * Corticosteroids to reduce itching and inflammation
    * Pain medicine, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin)
    * Vinegar (acetic acid) ear drops

People with chronic swimmer's ear may need long-term or repeated treatment.
This will to avoid complications.

Placing something warm against the ear may reduce pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Swimmer's ear most often gets better with the proper treatment.

## Possible Complications

The infection may spread to other areas around the ear, including the skull
bone. In older people or those who have diabetes, the infection may become
severe. This condition is called malignant otitis externa. This condition is
treated with high-dose antibiotics given through a vein.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop any symptoms of swimmer's ear
    * You notice any drainage coming from your ears
    * Your symptoms get worse or continue despite treatment
    * You have new symptoms, such as fever or pain and redness of the skull behind the ear

## Prevention

These steps can help protect your ears from further damage:

    * DO NOT scratch the ears or insert cotton swabs or other objects in the ears.
    * Keep ears clean and dry, and DO NOT let water enter the ears when showering, shampooing, or bathing.
    * Dry your ear very well after it has gotten wet.
    * Avoid swimming in polluted water.
    * Use earplugs when swimming.
    * Try mixing 1 drop of alcohol with 1 drop of white vinegar and placing the mixture into the ears after they get wet. The alcohol and acid in the vinegar help prevent bacterial growth.

## Alternative Names

Ear infection - outer ear - acute; Otitis externa - acute; Chronic swimmer's
ear; Otitis externa - chronic; Ear infection - outer ear - chronic

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy
    * ![Swimmer's ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19697t.jpg)Swimmer's ear

## References

Brant JA, Ruckenstein MJ. Infections of the external ear. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 137.

Haddad J, Keesecker S. External otitis (otitis externa). In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 639.

Holmer N. Swimmer's ear (otitis externa). American Speech-Language Hearing
Association. www.asha.org/public/hearing/Swimmers-Ear/. Accessed August 18,
2018.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

