Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001050.htm    
                                Description: Cholesteatoma is a type of skin cyst that is located in the middle ear and mastoid bone in the skull.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholesteatoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001050.htm

# Cholesteatoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholesteatoma is a type of skin cyst that is located in the middle ear and
mastoid bone in the skull.

## Causes

Cholesteatoma can be a birth defect (congenital). It more commonly occurs as a
result of chronic ear infection.

The eustachian tube helps equalize pressure in the middle ear. When it is not
working well, negative pressure can build up and pull part of the eardrum
(tympanic membrane) inward. This creates a pocket or cyst that fills with old
skin cells and other waste material.

The cyst may become infected or get bigger. This can cause the breakdown of
some of the middle ear bones or other structures of the ear. This can affect
hearing, balance, and possibly the function of the facial muscles.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Dizziness
    * Drainage from the ear, which can be chronic
    * Hearing loss in one ear
    * Sensation of ear fullness or pressure

## Exams and Tests

An ear exam may show a pocket or opening (perforation) in the eardrum, often
with drainage. A deposit of old skin cells may be seen with a microscope or an
otoscope, which isÂ a special instrument to view the ear. Sometimes a group of
blood vessels may be seen in the ear.

The following tests may be performed to rule out other causes of dizziness:

    * CT scan
    * Electronystagmography

## Treatment

Cholesteatomas very often continue to grow if they are not removed. Surgery is
most often successful. However, you may need the ear cleaned by a health care
provider from time to time. Another surgery may be needed if the cholesteatoma
comes back.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Brain abscess (rare)
    * Erosion into the facial nerve (causing facial paralysis)
    * Meningitis
    * Spread of the cyst into the brain

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if ear pain, drainage from the ear, or other symptoms occur
or worsen, or if hearing loss occurs.

## Prevention

Prompt and thorough treatment of chronic ear infection may help prevent
cholesteatoma.

## Alternative Names

Chronic ear infection - cholesteatoma; Chronic otitis - cholesteatoma

## Images

    * ![Tympanic membrane](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8993t.jpg)Tympanic membrane

## References

Chole RA. Chronic otitis media, mastoiditis, and petrositis. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

