Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000672.htm    
                                Description: Malignant otitis externa is a disorder that involves infection and damage of the bones of the ear canal and at the base of the skull.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malignant otitis externa

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000672.htm

# Malignant otitis externa

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malignant otitis externa is a disorder that involves infection and damage of
the bones of the ear canal and at the base of the skull.

## Causes

Malignant otitis externa is caused by the spread of an outer ear infection
(otitis externa) also called swimmer's ear. It is not common.

Risks for this condition include:

    * Chemotherapy
    * Diabetes
    * Weakened immune system 

External otitis is often caused by bacteria that are hard to treat, such as
pseudomonas. The infection spreads from the floor of the ear canal to the
nearby tissues and into the bones at the base of the skull. The infection and
swelling may damage or destroy the bones. The infection may affect the cranial
nerves, brain, or other parts of the body if it continues to spread.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Ongoing drainage from the ear that is yellow or green and smells bad.
    * Ear pain deep inside the ear. Pain may get worse when you move your head.
    * Hearing loss.
    * Itching of the ear or ear canal.
    * Fever.
    * Trouble swallowing.
    * Weakness in the muscles of the face.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look into your ear for signs of an outer ear
infection. The head around and behind the ear may be tender to touch. A
nervous system (neurological) exam may show that the cranial nerves are
affected.

If there is any drainage, the provider may send a sample of it to the lab. The
lab will culture the sample to try to find the cause of the infection.

To look for signs of a bone infection next to the ear canal, the following
tests may be done:

    * CT scan of the head
    * MRI scan of the head
    * Radionuclide scan 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection. Treatment often lasts for
several months, because it is difficult to treat the bacteria and reach an
infection in bone tissue.

You will need to take antibiotic medicines for a long period of time. The
medicines may be given through a vein (intravenously), or by mouth.
Antibiotics should be continued until scans or other tests show the
inflammation has gone down.

Dead or infected tissue may need to be removed from the ear canal. In some
cases, surgery may be needed to remove dead or damaged tissue in the skull.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Malignant otitis externa most often responds to long-term treatment,
especially if treated early. It may return in the future. Severe cases may be
deadly.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Damage to the cranial nerves, skull, or brain
    * Return of infection, even after treatment
    * Spread of infection to the brain or other parts of the body

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of malignant otitis externa.
    * Symptoms continue despite treatment.
    * You develop new symptoms.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have:

    * Convulsions
    * Decreased consciousness
    * Severe confusion
    * Facial weakness, loss of voice, or difficulty swallowing associated with ear pain or drainage 

## Prevention

To prevent an external ear infection:

    * Dry the ear thoroughly after it gets wet. 
    * Avoid swimming in polluted water. 
    * Protect the ear canal with cotton or lamb's wool while applying hair spray or hair dye (if you are prone to getting external ear infections). 
    * After swimming, place 1 or 2 drops of a mixture of 50% alcohol and 50% vinegar in each ear to help dry the ear and prevent infection. 

Treat acute otitis externa completely. Do not stop treatment sooner than your
provider recommends. Following your provider's plan and finishing treatment
will lower your risk of malignant otitis externa.

## Alternative Names

Osteomyelitis of the skull; Otitis externa - malignant

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Brant JA, Ruckenstein MJ. Infections of the external ear. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 137.

Pfaff JA, Moore GP. Otolaryngology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 62.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

