Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000716.htm    
                                Description: You may have seen your health care provider because you have had labyrinthitis. This inner ear problem can cause you to feel like you are spinning (vertigo).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Labyrinthitis - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000716.htm

# Labyrinthitis - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You may have seen your health care provider because you have had
labyrinthitis. This inner ear problem can cause you to feel like you are
spinning (vertigo).

Most of the worst symptoms of vertigo will go away within a week. However, you
may feel dizzy at times for another 2 to 3 months.

## Self-care

Being dizzy can cause you to lose your balance, fall, and hurt yourself. These
tips can help keep symptoms from getting worse and keep you safe:

    * When you feel dizzy, sit down right away.
    * To get up from a lying position, slowly sit up and stay seated for a few moments before standing.
    * When standing, make sure you have something to hold on to.
    * Avoid sudden movements or position changes.
    * You may need a cane or other help walking when symptoms are severe.
    * Avoid bright lights, TV, and reading during a vertigo attack. They may make symptoms worse.
    * Avoid activities such as driving, operating heavy machinery, and climbing while you are having symptoms. 

If symptoms continue, ask your provider about balance therapy. Balance therapy
includes head, eye, and body exercises you can do at home to help train your
brain to overcome dizziness.

Symptoms of labyrinthitis can cause stress. Make healthy lifestyle choices to
help you cope, such as:

    * Eat a well-balanced, healthy diet. DO NOT overeat.
    * Exercise regularly, if possible.
    * Get enough sleep.
    * Limit caffeine and alcohol. 

Help ease stress by using relaxation techniques, such as:

    * Deep breathing
    * Guided imagery
    * Meditation
    * Progressive muscle relaxation
    * Tai chi
    * Yoga 

## Medicines

For some people, diet alone will not be enough. If needed, your provider may
also give you:

    * Antihistamine medicines
    * Medicines to control nausea and vomiting
    * Medicines to relieve dizziness
    * Sedatives
    * Steroids 

Most of these medicines may make you sleepy. So you should first take them
when you do not have to drive or be alert for important tasks.

You should have regular follow-up visits and lab work as suggested by your
provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Symptoms of vertigo return
    * You have new symptoms
    * Your symptoms are getting worse
    * You have hearing loss

Call 911 or your local emergency number if you have any of the following
severe symptoms:

    * Convulsions
    * Double vision
    * Fainting
    * Vomiting a lot
    * Slurred speech
    * Vertigo that occurs with a fever of more than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Weakness or paralysis

## Alternative Names

Bacterial labyrinthitis - aftercare; Serous labyrinthitis - aftercare;
Neuronitis - vestibular - aftercare; Vestibular neuronitis - aftercare; Viral
neurolabyrinthitis - aftercare; Vestibular neuritis vertigo - aftercare;
Labyrinthitis - dizziness - aftercare; Labyrinthitis - vertigo - aftercare

## References

Chang AK. Dizziness and vertigo. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

Crane BT, Minor LB. Peripheral vestibular disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2015:chap 165.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dizziness and Vertigo
    * Ear Infections

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

