Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001532.htm    
                                Description: Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a type of depression that occurs at a certain time of the year, usually in winter.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Seasonal affective disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001532.htm

# Seasonal affective disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a type of depression that occurs at a
certain time of the year, usually in winter.

## Causes

SAD may begin during the teen years or in adulthood. Like other forms of
depression, it occurs more often in women than in men.

People who live in places with long winter nights are at high risk of
developing SAD. A less common form of the disorder involves depression during
the summer months.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually build up slowly in the late autumn and winter months.
Symptoms are often the same as with other forms of depression:

    * Hopelessness
    * Increased appetite with weight gain (weight loss is more common with other forms of depression)
    * Increased sleep (too little sleep is more common with other forms of depression)
    * Less energy and ability to concentrate
    * Loss of interest in work or other activities
    * Sluggish movements
    * Social withdrawal
    * Unhappiness and irritability 

SAD can sometimes become long-term depression. Bipolar disorder or thoughts of
suicide are also possible.

## Exams and Tests

There is no test for SAD. Your health care provider can make a diagnosis by
asking about your history of symptoms.

Your provider may also perform a physical exam and blood tests to rule out
other disorders that are similar to SAD.

## Treatment

As with other types of depression, antidepressant medicines and talk therapy
can be effective.

MANAGING YOUR DEPRESSION AT HOME

To manage your symptoms at home:

    * Get enough sleep.
    * Eat healthy foods.
    * Take medicines the right way. Ask your provider how to manage side effects.
    * Learn to watch for early signs that your depression is getting worse. Have a plan if it does get worse.
    * Try to exercise more often. Do activities that make you happy. 

DO NOT use alcohol or illegal drugs. These can make depression worse. They can
also cause you to think about suicide.

When you are struggling with depression, talk about how you are feeling with
someone you trust. Try to be around people who are caring and positive.
Volunteer or get involved in group activities.

LIGHT THERAPY

Your provider may prescribe light therapy. Light therapy uses a special lamp
with a very bright light that mimics light from the sun:

    * Treatment is started in the fall or early winter, before the symptoms of SAD begin.
    * Follow your provider's instructions about how to use light therapy. One way that may be recommended is to sit a couple of feet (60 centimeters) away from the light box for about 30 minutes each day. This is often done in the early morning, to mimic sunrise.
    * Keep your eyes open, but do not look straight into the light source. 

If light therapy is going to help, symptoms of depression should improve
within 3 to 4 weeks.

Side effects of light therapy include:

    * Eye strain or headache
    * Mania (rarely) 

People who take medicines that make them more sensitive to light, such as
certain psoriasis drugs, antibiotics, or antipsychotics, should not use light
therapy.

A checkup with your eye doctor is recommended before starting treatment.

With no treatment, symptoms usually get better on their own with the change of
seasons. Symptoms can improve more quickly with treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is usually good with treatment. But some people have SAD
throughout their lives.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if you have thoughts of hurting yourself or anyone
else.

## Alternative Names

Seasonal depression; Winter depression; Wintertime blues; SAD

## Images

    * ![Forms of depression](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19300t.jpg)Forms of depression

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Depressive disorders. In: American
Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:155-188.

Fava M, Ãstergaard SD, Cassano P. Mood disorders: depressive disorders (major
depressive disorder). In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Seasonal Affective
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeasonAffectiveDisorder_thumb.jpg)Seasonal
Affective Disorder _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

