Link: https://medlineplus.gov/earinfections.html    
                                Description: Ear infections are common in children. The infection usually affects the middle ear and is called otitis media. Learn what to look out for.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Ear Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/earinfections.html

#  Ear Infections

Also called: Otitis media

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Ear infections are the most common reason parents bring their child to a
doctor. Three out of four children will have at least one ear infection by
their third birthday. Adults can also get ear infections, but they are less
common.

The infection usually affects the middle ear and is called otitis media. The
tubes inside the ears become clogged with fluid and mucus. This can affect
hearing, because sound cannot get through all that fluid.

If your child isn't old enough to say "My ear hurts," here are a few things to
look for

    * Tugging at ears
    * Crying more than usual
    * Fluid draining from the ear
    * Trouble sleeping
    * Balance difficulties
    * Hearing problems

Your health care provider will diagnose an ear infection by looking inside the
ear with an instrument called an otoscope.

Often, ear infections go away on their own. Your health care provider may
recommend pain relievers. Severe infections and infections in young babies may
require antibiotics.

Children who get infections often may need surgery to place small tubes inside
their ears. The tubes relieve pressure in the ears so that the child can hear
again.

NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Start Here

    * Ear Infection (Middle Ear) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Ear Infections (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Ear Infections in Children ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders) Also in Spanish
    * Middle Ear Infections (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Ear Problems (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Can I Prevent Ear Infections When My Child Swims? (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Ear Infection Treatment: Do Alternative Therapies Work? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Ear tube insertion - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ear Tubes (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * Eardrum repair - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Get Smart: Know When Antibiotics Work - Ear Infections (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * How to Use Ear Drops Properly (American Society of Health-System Pharmacists)
    * Is Ear Candling a Safe Way to Remove Earwax? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Middle Ear Infections (American Academy of Pediatrics)

## Related Issues

    * Cholesteatoma (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * Ototoxicity (Ear Poisoning) (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Ruptured Eardrum (Perforated Eardrum) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Specifics

    * Labyrinthitis and Vestibular Neuritis (Vestibular Disorders Association)
    * Swimmer's Ear (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Ear Infection Treatment Shouldn't Be Shortened ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Statistics about Hearing, Balance, Ear Infections and Deafness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Otitis Externa ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Otitis Media ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Impact of platelet-rich fibrin therapy in tympanoplasty type 1 surgery on...
    * Article: Prognostic factors of myringoplasty: study of a 140 cases series and...
    * Article: Effects of dexamethasone combined with ambroxol hydrochloride on T-Cell subsets and...
    * Ear Infections -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * NIDCD Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders)

## Find an Expert

    * American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery
    * Find an ENT (American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery)
    * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Cholesteatoma (Nemours Foundation)
    * Middle Ear Infections and Ear Tube Surgery (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Pain in the Ear: Fending off Ear Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Swimmer's Ear (Nemours Foundation)
    * Tympanoplasty (Nemours Foundation)
    * What Is an Ear Infection? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Your Ears (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Swimmer's Ear (External Otitis) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cholesteatoma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ear discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ear examination (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ear infection - acute (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ear infection - chronic (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ear tube insertion (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Earache (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Otitis media with effusion (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Swimmer's ear (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cholesteatoma
    * Ear discharge
    * Ear drainage culture
    * Ear examination
    * Ear infection - acute
    * Ear infection - chronic
    * Ear tube insertion
    * Ear tube insertion - slideshow
    * Ear tube surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Earache
    * Eardrum repair
    * Eardrum repair - slideshow
    * Infectious myringitis
    * Labyrinthitis
    * Labyrinthitis -- aftercare
    * Malignant otitis externa
    * Mastoidectomy
    * Mastoiditis
    * Otitis
    * Otitis media with effusion
    * Perichondritis
    * Petrositis
    * Ruptured eardrum
    * Swimmer's ear

Show More Show Less

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Ear Infections is the National
Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Ear Infections_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 20 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

