Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000442.htm    
                                Description: A herniated (slipped) disk occurs when all or part of a disk is forced through a weakened part of the disk. This may place pressure on nearby nerves or the spinal cord.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Herniated disk

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000442.htm

# Herniated disk

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A herniated (slipped) disk occurs when all or part of a disk is forced through
a weakened part of the disk. This may place pressure on nearby nerves or the
spinal cord.

![Herniated nucleus pulposus \(slipped
disk\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200059t.gif)Watch this video
about:Herniated nucleus pulposus (slipped disk)

## Causes

The bones (vertebrae) of the spinal column protect nerves that come out of the
brain and travel down your back to form the spinal cord. Nerve roots are large
nerves that branch out from the spinal cord and leave your spinal column
between each vertebra.

![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1116.jpg)

The spinal bones are separated by disks. These disks cushion the spinal column
and put space between your vertebrae. The disks allow movement between the
vertebrae, which lets you bend and reach.

With herniated disk:

    * The disk may move out of place (herniate) or break open (rupture) from injury or strain. When this happens, there may be pressure on the spinal nerves. This can lead to pain, numbness, or weakness.
    * The lower back (lumbar area) of the spine is the most common area affected by a slipped disk. The neck (cervical) disks are the second most commonly affected area. The upper-to-mid-back (thoracic) disks are rarely involved. 

A herniated disk is a cause of radiculopathy. This is any disease that affects
the spinal nerve roots.

Slipped disks occur more often in middle-aged and older men, usually after
strenuous activity. Other risk factors may include:

    * Lifting heavy objects
    * Being overweight
    * Repetitive bending or twisting the lower back
    * Sitting or standing in same position for long hours
    * Inactive lifestyle
    * Smoking 

## Symptoms

The pain most often occurs on one side of the body. Symptoms vary, depending
on the site of injury, and may include the following:

    * With a slipped disk in your lower back, you may have sharp pain in one part of the leg, hip, or buttocks, and numbness in other parts. You may also feel pain or numbness on the back of the calf or sole of the foot. The same leg may also feel weak.
    * With a slipped disk in your neck, you may have pain when moving your neck, deep pain near or over the shoulder blade, or pain that moves to the upper arm, forearm, and fingers. You can also have numbness along your shoulder, elbow, forearm, and fingers. 
![Sciatic nerve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19503.jpg)

The pain often starts slowly. It may get worse:

    * After standing or sitting
    * At night
    * When sneezing, coughing, or laughing
    * When bending backward or walking more than a few yards or meters
    * When straining or holding your breath, such as when having a bowel movement 

You may also have weakness in certain muscles. Sometimes, you may not notice
it until your health care provider examines you. In other cases, you will
notice that you have a hard time lifting your leg or arm, standing on your
toes on one side, squeezing tightly with one of your hands, or other problems.
Your bladder control may be lost.

The pain, numbness, or weakness often goes away or improves a lot over weeks
to months.

## Exams and Tests

A careful physical exam and history is almost always the first step. Depending
on where you have symptoms, your provider examines your neck, shoulder, arms,
and hands, or your lower back, hips, legs, and feet.

Your provider will check:

    * For numbness or loss of feeling
    * Your muscle reflexes, which may be slower or missing
    * Your muscle strength, which may be weaker
    * Your posture, or the way your spine curves 

Your provider may also ask you to:

    * Sit, stand, and walk. While you walk, your provider may ask you to try walking on your toes and then your heels.
    * Bend forward, backward, and sideways.
    * Move your neck forward, backward, and sideways.
    * Raise your shoulders, elbow, wrist, and hand, and check your strength during these tasks. 

Leg pain that occurs when you sit on an exam table and lift your leg straight
up usually suggests a slipped disk in your lower back.

In another test, you will bend your head forward and to the sides while the
provider puts slight downward pressure on the top of your head. Increased pain
or numbness during this test is usually a sign of pressure on a nerve in your
neck.

DIAGNOSTIC TESTS

Â Tests done may include:Â

    * Spine MRI or spine CT may be done to show where the herniated disk is pressing on the spinal canal.
    * Electromyography (EMG) may be done to determine the exact nerve root that is involved.
    * Myelogram may be done to determine the size and location of disk herniation.
    * Nerve conduction velocity test may also be done.
    * Spine x-ray may be done to rule out other causes of back or neck pain. However, it is not possible to diagnose a herniated disk by a spine x-ray alone. 

## Treatment

The first treatment for a slipped disk is a short period of rest and taking
medicines for the pain. This is followed by physical therapy. Most people who
follow these treatments recover and return to normal activities. Some people
will need to have more treatment. This may include steroid injections or
surgery.

MEDICINES

Medicines can help with your pain. Your provider may prescribe any of the
following:

    * NSAIDs for long-term pain control
    * NarcoticsÂ if the pain is severe and does not respond to NSAIDs
    * Medicines to calm the nerves
    * Muscle relaxants to relieve back spasms 

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

If you are overweight, diet and exercise are very important for improving back
pain.

Physical therapy is important for nearly everyone with disk disease.
Therapists will teach you how to properly lift, dress, walk, and perform other
activities. They teach you how to strengthen muscles that help support the
spine. You will also learn how to increase flexibility in your spine and legs.

Take care of your back at home:

    * Reduce activity for the first few days. Slowly restart your usual activities.
    * Avoid heavy lifting or twisting your back for the first 6 weeks after the pain starts.
    * After 2 to 3 weeks, gradually start exercising again. 

INJECTIONS

Steroid medicine injections into the back in the area of the herniated disk
may help control pain for several months. These injections reduce swelling
around the spinal nerve and disk and relieve many symptoms. They do not solve
the underlying problem and your pain may return after weeks or months. Spinal
injections are an outpatient procedure.

![Herniated disk repair](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9929.jpg)

SURGERY

Surgery may be an option if your symptoms do not go away with other treatments
and time.

One such surgery is diskectomy, which removes all or part of a disk.

Discuss with your provider which treatment options are best for you.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people improve with treatment. But you may have long-term back pain, even
after treatment.

It may take several months to a year or more to go back to all of your
activities without having pain or straining your back. People who work in jobs
that involve heavy lifting or back strain may need to change their job
activities to avoid injuring their back again.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, the following problems can occur:

    * Long-term back pain or leg pain
    * Loss of movement or feeling in the legs or feet
    * Loss of bowel and bladder function
    * Permanent spinal cord injury (very rare) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Severe back pain that does not go away
    * Any numbness, loss of movement, weakness, or bowel or bladder changes 

## Prevention

To help prevent back injury:

    * Use proper lifting techniques.
    * Maintain a healthy weight.
    * Do exercises to keep your abdominal (core) and back muscles strong.

Your provider may suggest a back brace to help support the spine. A brace may
prevent injuries in people who lift heavy objects at work. But using these
devices too much can weaken the muscles that support your spine and make the
problem worse.

## Alternative Names

Lumbar radiculopathy; Cervical radiculopathy; Herniated intervertebral disk;
Prolapsed intervertebral disk; Slipped disk; Ruptured disk; Herniated nucleus
pulposus: Low back pain - herniated disk; LBP - herniated disk; Sciatica -
herniated disk; Herniated disk; Disc - herniated

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Sciatic nerve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19503t.jpg)Sciatic nerve
    * ![Herniated nucleus pulposus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9700t.jpg)Herniated nucleus pulposus
    * ![Herniated disk repair](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9929t.jpg)Herniated disk repair
    * ![Lumbar spinal surgery - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12695t.jpg)Lumbar spinal surgery - series
    * ![Herniated lumbar disk](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9540t.jpg)Herniated lumbar disk

## References

Gardocki RJ, Park AL. Degenerative disorders of the thoracic and lumbar spine.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics._
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

Magee DJ. Lumbar spine. In: Magee DJ, ed. _Orthopaedic Physical Assessment_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 9.

Sudhir A, Perina D. Musculoskeletal back pain. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 47.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Herniated
Disk](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerniatedDisk_thumb.jpg)Herniated Disk
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

