Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000222.htm    
                                Description: Small bowel bacterial overgrowth is a condition in which very large numbers of bacteria grow in the small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Small bowel bacterial overgrowth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000222.htm

# Small bowel bacterial overgrowth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Small bowel bacterial overgrowth is a condition in which very large numbers of
bacteria grow in the small intestine.

## Causes

Most of the time, unlike the large intestine, the small intestine does not
have a large number of bacteria. Excess bacteria in the small intestine may
use up the nutrients needed by the body. As a result, a person may become
malnourished.

The breakdown of nutrients by the excess bacteria can also damage the lining
of the small intestine. This can make it even harder for the body to absorb
nutrients.

Conditions that can lead to overgrowth of bacteria in the small intestine
include:

    * Complications of diseases or surgery that create pouches or blockages in the small intestine. Crohn disease is one of these conditions.
    * Diseases that lead to movement problems in the small bowel, such as diabetes and scleroderma.
    * Immunodeficiency, such as AIDS or immunoglobulin deficiency.
    * Short bowel syndrome caused by surgical removal of the small intestine.
    * Small bowel diverticulosis, in which small, and at times large sacs occur in the inner lining of the intestine. These sacs allow too many bacteria to grow. These sacs are much more common in the large bowel. 
    * Surgical procedures that create a loop of small intestine where excess bacteria can grow. An example is a Billroth II type of stomach removal (gastrectomy). 
    * Some cases of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).

## Symptoms

The most common symptoms are:

    * Abdominal fullness 
    * Abdominal pain and cramps 
    * Bloating 
    * Diarrhea (most often watery) 
    * Gassiness 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Fatty stool 
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history. Tests may include:

    * Blood chemistry tests (such as albumin level)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Fecal fat test
    * Small intestine endoscopy
    * Vitamin levels in the blood
    * Small intestine biopsy or culture
    * Special breath tests

## Treatment

The goal is to treat the cause of the bacterial overgrowth. Treatment may
include:

    * Antibiotics
    * Medicines that speed intestinal movement
    * Intravenous (IV) fluids
    * Nutrition given through a vein (total parenteral nutrition â TPN) in a malnourished person

A lactose-free diet can be helpful.

## Possible Complications

Severe cases lead to malnutrition. Other possible complications include:

    * Dehydration
    * Excess bleeding due to vitamin deficiency
    * Liver disease
    * Osteomalacia or osteoporosis

## Alternative Names

Overgrowth - intestinal bacteria; Bacterial overgrowth - intestine; Small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth; SIBO

## References

Cholankeril G. Small bowel bacterial overgrowth (SIBO). In: Ferri FF, ed.
_Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:
1194-1194.e1.

Manolakis CS, Rutland TJ, Di Palma JA. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.
In: McNally PR, ed. _GI/Liver Secrets Plus_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 44.

Penman ID, Lees CW. Alimentary tract and pancreatic disease. In: Walker BR,
Colledge NR, Ralston SH, Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice
of Medicine_. 22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2014:chap 22.

Quigley EMM. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

