Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001149.htm    
                                Description: Enteritis is inflammation of the small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enteritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001149.htm

# Enteritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enteritis is inflammation of the small intestine.

## Causes

Enteritis is most often caused by eating or drinking things that are
contaminated with bacteria or viruses. The germs settle in the small intestine
and cause inflammation and swelling.

Enteritis may also be caused by:

    * An autoimmune condition, such as Crohn disease
    * Certain drugs, including NSAIDS (such as ibuprofen and naproxen sodium) and cocaine
    * Damage from radiation therapy
    * Celiac disease
    * Tropical sprue
    * Whipple disease 

The inflammation can also involve the stomach (gastritis) and large intestine
(colitis).

Risk factors include:

    * Recent stomach flu among household members
    * Recent travel
    * Exposure to unclean water 

Types of enteritis include:

    * Bacterial gastroenteritis
    * Campylobacter enteritis
    *  _E coli_ enteritis
    * Food poisoning
    * Radiation enteritis
    * Salmonella enteritis
    * Shigella enteritis
    * Staph aureus food poisoning 

## Symptoms

The symptoms may begin hours to days after you become infected. Symptoms may
include:

    * Abdominal pain 
    * Diarrhea -- acute and severe 
    * Loss of appetite
    * Vomiting 
    * Blood in the stool

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

    * A stool culture to look for the type of infection. However, this test may not always identify the bacteria causing the illness.
    * A colonoscopy and/or upper endoscopy to look at the small intestine and to take tissue samples if needed.
    * Imaging tests such as CT scan and MRI (if symptoms are persistent). 

## Treatment

Mild cases often do not need treatment.

Antidiarrheal medicine is sometimes used. However, it may not be recommended
in some cases because it can slow the germ from leaving the digestive tract.

You may need rehydration with electrolyte solutions if your body does not have
enough fluids.

You may need medical care and fluids through a vein (intravenous fluids) if
you have diarrhea and cannot keep fluids down. This is often the case with
young children.

If you take diuretics (water pills) or ACE inhibitor and develop diarrhea, you
may need to stop taking the diuretics. However, do not stop taking any
medicine without first talking to your health care provider.

You may need to take antibiotics.

People who have Crohn disease will often need to take anti-inflammatory
medicines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms most often go away without treatment in a few days in otherwise
healthy people.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Dehydration
    * Long-term diarrhea 

Note: In babies, the diarrhea can cause severe dehydration that comes on very
quickly.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You become dehydrated.
    * Diarrhea does not go away in 3 to 4 days.
    * You have a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).
    * You have blood in your stool.

## Prevention

The following steps may help prevent enteritis:

    * Always wash your hands after using the toilet and before eating or preparing food or drinks. You may also clean your hands with a 60% alcohol-based product.
    * Boil water that comes from unknown sources, such as streams and outdoor wells, before drinking it.
    * Use only clean utensils for eating or handling foods, particularly when handling eggs and poultry.
    * Cook food thoroughly.
    * Use coolers to store food that needs to stay chilled. 

## Images

    * ![Salmonella typhi organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1048t.jpg)Salmonella typhi organism
    * ![Yersinia enterocolitica organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1049t.jpg)Yersinia enterocolitica organism
    * ![Campylobacter jejuni organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1050t.jpg)Campylobacter jejuni organism
    * ![Clostridium difficile organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1051t.jpg)Clostridium difficile organism
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Esophagus and stomach anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8756t.jpg)Esophagus and stomach anatomy

## References

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Lima AAM, Warren CA, Guerrant RL. Bacterial inflammatory enteritides. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 101.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 4/10/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

