Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007378.htm    
                                Description: An ileostomy is used to move waste out of the body. This surgery is done when the colon or rectum is not working properly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ileostomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007378.htm

# Ileostomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An ileostomy is used to move waste out of the body. This surgery is done when
the colon or rectum is not working properly.

The word "ileostomy" comes from the words "ileum" and "stoma." Your ileum is
the lowest part of your small intestine. "Stoma" means "opening." To make an
ileostomy the surgeon makes an opening in your belly wall and brings the end
of the ileum through the opening. The ileum is then attached to the skin.

## Description

Before you have surgery to create an ileostomy, you may have surgery to remove
all of your colon and rectum, or just part of your small intestine.

These surgeries include:

    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy

An ileostomy may be used for a short or long time.

When your ileostomy is temporary, it most often means all of your large
intestine was removed. However, you still have at least part of your rectum.
If you have surgery on part of your large intestine, your health care provider
may want the remainder of your intestine to rest for a while. You will use the
ileostomy while you recover from this surgery. When you do not need it
anymore, you will have another surgery. This surgery will be done to reattach
the ends of the small intestine. You will no longer need the ileostomy after
this.

You will need to use it long-term if all of your large intestine and rectum
have been removed.

To create the ileostomy, the surgeon makes a small surgical cut in the wall of
your belly. Part of your small intestine that is farthest from your stomach is
brought up and used to make an opening. This is called a stoma. When you look
at your stoma, you are actually looking at the lining of your intestine. It
looks a lot like the inside of your cheek.

Sometimes, an ileostomy is done as the first step in forming an ileal anal
reservoir (called a J-pouch).

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Ileostomy is done when problems with your large intestine can only be treated
with surgery.

There are many problems that may lead to the need for this surgery. Some are:

    * Inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease). This is the most common reason for this surgery.
    * Colon or rectal cancer
    * Familial polyposis
    * Birth defects that involve your intestines
    * An accident that damages your intestines or another intestinal emergency 

## Risks

Talk with your provider about these possible risks and complications.

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection 

Risks of this surgery are:

    * Bleeding inside your belly
    * Damage to nearby organs
    * Dehydration (not having enough fluid in your body) if there is a lot of watery drainage from your ileostomy
    * Difficulty absorbing needed nutrients from food
    * Infection, including in the lungs, urinary tract, or belly
    * Poor healing of the wound in your perineum (if your rectum was removed)
    * Scar tissue in your belly that causes a blockage of the small intestine
    * Wound breaking open 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider what medicines you are taking, even medicines,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

Before your surgery, talk with your provider about the following things:

    * Intimacy and sexuality
    * Pregnancy
    * Sports
    * Work 

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * Two weeks before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), Naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and others.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help.
    * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery.

The day before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to drink only clear liquids such as broth, clear juice, and water after some point.
    * Your provider will tell you when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Your provider may ask you to use enemas or laxatives to clear out your intestines. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Take the drugs you were told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will be in the hospital for 3 to 7 days. You may have to stay longer if
your ileostomy was an emergency operation.

You may be able to suck on ice chips on the same day as your surgery to ease
your thirst. By the next day, you will probably be allowed to drink clear
liquids. You will slowly add thicker fluids and then soft foods to your diet
as your bowels begin to work again. You may be eating again 2 days after your
surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who have an ileostomy are able to do most of the activities they
were doing before their surgery. This includes most sports, travel, gardening,
hiking, and other outdoor activities, and most types of work.

If you have a chronic condition, such as Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis,
you may need ongoing medical treatment.

## Alternative Names

Enterostomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## References

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

Reddy VB, Longo WE. Ileostomy. In: Yeo CJ, ed. _Shackelford's Surgery of the
Alimentary Tract_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 84.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ostomy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ostomy_thumb.jpg)Ostomy _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

