Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003729.htm    
                                Description: Smear of duodenal fluid aspirate is an exam of fluid from the duodenum to check for signs of an infection (such as giardia or strongyloides). Rarely, this test is also done in a newborn to check for biliary    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smear of duodenal fluid aspirate

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003729.htm

# Smear of duodenal fluid aspirate

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Smear of duodenal fluid aspirate is an exam of fluid from the duodenum to
check for signs of an infection (such as giardia or strongyloides). Rarely,
this test is also done in a newborn to check for biliary atresia.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample is taken during a procedure called an esophagogastroduodenoscopy
(EGD).

## How to Prepare for the Test

Do not eat or drink anything for 12 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel like you have to gag as the tube is passed, but the procedure is
most often not painful. You can get medicines to help you relax and be free of
pain. If you get anesthesia, you cannot drive for the rest of the day.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to look for infection of the small bowel. However, it is not
often needed. In most cases, this test is only done when a diagnosis cannot be
made with other tests.

## Normal Results

There should be no disease-causing organisms in the duodenum. Normal value
ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The results may show the presence of giardia protozoa, the intestinal parasite
strongyloides, or another infectious organism.

## Risks

The risks of this test include:

    * Bleeding 
    * Perforation of (poking a hole in) the gastrointestinal tract by the scope
    * Infection

Some people may not be able to have this test because of other medical
conditions.

## Considerations

Other tests that are less invasive can often find the source of the infection.

## Alternative Names

Duodenal aspirated fluid smear

## Images

    * ![Duodenum tissue smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9281t.jpg)Duodenum tissue smear

## References

Dupont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Fritsche TR, Pritt BS. Medical parasitology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 63.

Gerding DN, Johnson S. Clostridial infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 296.

Gerding DN, Young VB. Clostridium difficle infection. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 245.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

