Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000237.htm    
                                Description: Short bowel syndrome is a problem that occurs when part of the small intestine is missing or has been removed during surgery. Nutrients are not properly absorbed into the body as a result.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Short bowel syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000237.htm

# Short bowel syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Short bowel syndrome is a problem that occurs when part of the small intestine
is missing or has been removed during surgery. Nutrients are not properly
absorbed into the body as a result.

## Causes

The small intestine absorbs much of the nutrients found in foods we eat. When
two-thirds of the small intestine is missing, the body may not absorb enough
food to stay healthy and maintain your weight.

Some infants are born missing part or much of their small intestine.

More often, short bowel syndrome occurs because much of the small intestine is
removed during surgery. This type of surgery may be needed:

    * After gunshots or other trauma damaged the intestines
    * For someone with severe Crohn disease
    * For infants, often born too early, when part of their intestines dies
    * When blood flow to the small intestine is reduced due to blood clots or narrowed arteries

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Fatigue
    * Pale, greasy stools
    * Swelling (edema), especially of the legs
    * Very foul-smelling stools
    * Weight loss
    * Dehydration

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood chemistry tests (such as albumin level)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Fecal fat test
    * Small intestine x-ray
    * Vitamin levels in the blood

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at relieving symptoms and ensuring the body receives enough
nutrients.

A high-calorie diet that supplies:

    * Key vitamins and minerals, such as iron, folic acid, and vitamin B12
    * Enough carbohydrates, proteins, and fats

If needed, injections of some vitamins and minerals or special growth factors
will be given.

Medicines to slow down the normal movement of the intestine can be tried. This
may allow food to remain in the intestine longer.

If the body is not able to absorb enough nutrients, total parenteral nutrition
(TPN) is tried. It will help you or your child get nutrition from a special
formula through a vein in the body. Your health care provider will select the
right amount of calories and TPN solution. Sometimes, you can also eat and
drink while getting nutrition from TPN.

Small bowel transplantation is an option in some cases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition may improve over time if it is due to surgery. Nutrient
absorption may slowly get better.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine
    * Nervous system problems caused by a lack of vitamin B12 (This problem can be treated with vitamin B12 injections.)
    * Too much acid in the blood (metabolic acidosis due to diarrhea)
    * Gallstones
    * Kidney stones
    * Malnutrition
    * Weakened bones (osteomalacia)
    * Weight loss 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of short bowel syndrome, especially
after you have had bowel surgery.

## Alternative Names

Small intestine insufficiency; Short gut syndrome; Necrotizing enterocolitis -
short bowel

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Buchman AL. Short bowel syndrome. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 106.

Kaufman SS. Short bowel syndrome. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS, Kay M, eds.
_Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 35.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 4/3/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

