Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001148.htm    
                                Description: Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is the death of tissue in the intestine. It occurs most often in premature or sick babies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Necrotizing enterocolitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001148.htm

# Necrotizing enterocolitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is the death of tissue in the intestine. It
occurs most often in premature or sick babies.

## Causes

NEC occurs when the lining of the intestinal wall dies. This problem nearly
always develops in an infant who is ill or premature. It is likely to occur
while the infant is still in the hospital.

The exact cause of this disorder is unknown. A drop in blood flow to the bowel
can damage the tissue. Bacteria in the intestine may also add to the problem.
Also, premature infants have an undeveloped immune response to factors such as
bacteria or low blood flow. An imbalance in immune regulation appears to be
involved in NEC.

Babies at higher risk for the condition include:

    * Premature infants
    * Infants who are fed formula rather than human milk. (Human milk contains growth factors, antibodies and immune cells which may help prevent the problem.)
    * Infants in a nursery where an outbreak has occurred
    * Infants who have received blood exchange transfusions or have been seriously ill 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may come on slowly or suddenly, and may include:

    * Abdominal bloating
    * Blood in the stool
    * Diarrhea
    * Feeding problems
    * Lack of energy
    * Unstable body temperature
    * Unstable breathing, heart rate, or blood pressure
    * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Stool for occult blood test (guaiac) 
    * CBC (complete blood count)
    * Electrolyte levels, blood gases and other blood tests

## Treatment

Treatment for a baby who may have NEC most often includes:

    * Halting enteral (GI tract) feedings
    * Relieving gas in the bowel by inserting a tube in the stomach
    * Giving IV fluids and nutrition 
    * Giving IV antibiotics
    * Monitoring the condition with abdominal x-rays, blood tests, and measurement of blood gases 

The infant will need surgery if there is a hole in the intestines or
inflammation of the abdominal wall (peritonitis).

In this surgery, the doctor will:

    * Remove dead bowel tissue
    * Perform a colostomy or ileostomy

The bowel may be reconnected after several weeks or months when the infection
has healed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Necrotizing enterocolitis is a serious disease. Up to 40% of infants with NEC
die from it. Early, aggressive treatment can help improve the outcome.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Peritonitis
    * Sepsis
    * Intestinal perforation
    * Intestinal stricture
    * Liver problems from prolonged inability to tolerate enteral feeds and need for parenteral (IV) nutrition
    * Short bowel syndrome if a large amount of intestine is lost 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency medical care if any symptoms of necrotizing enterocolitis
develop. Infants who are hospitalized for illness or prematurity are at higher
risk of NEC. They are watched closely for this problem before they are sent
home.

## Images

    * ![Infant intestines](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9050t.jpg)Infant intestines

## References

Caplan M. Neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA,
Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 94.

Greenberg JM, Haberman B, Narendran V, Nathan AT, Schibler K. Neonatal
morbidities of prenatal origin. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene
MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 73.

Seed PC. The microbiome and pediatric health. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 196.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

