Link: https://medlineplus.gov/seasonalaffectivedisorder.html    
                                Description: Seasonal affective disorder or SAD is a type of depression experienced by some people during the winter months, when there is less natural sunlight.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Seasonal Affective Disorder

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/seasonalaffectivedisorder.html

#  Seasonal Affective Disorder

Also called: SAD, Seasonal depression, Seasonal mood disorder

## Summary

Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a type of depression that comes and goes
with the seasons. It usually starts in the late fall and early winter and goes
away during the spring and summer. Some people do have episodes of depression
that start in the spring or summer, but that is a lot less common. Symptoms of
SAD may include

    * Sadness
    * Gloomy outlook
    * Feeling hopeless, worthless, and irritable
    * Loss of interest or pleasure in activities you used to enjoy
    * Low energy
    * Difficulty sleeping or oversleeping
    * Carbohydrate cravings and weight gain
    * Thoughts of death or suicide

SAD is more common in women, young people, and those who live far from the
equator. You are also more likely to have SAD if you or your family members
have depression.

The exact causes of SAD are unknown. Researchers have found that people with
SAD may have an imbalance of serotonin, a brain chemical that affects your
mood. Their bodies also make too much melatonin, a hormone that regulates
sleep, and not enough vitamin D.

The main treatment for SAD is light therapy. The idea behind light therapy is
to replace the sunshine that you miss during the fall and winter months. You
sit in front of a light therapy box every morning to get daily exposure to
bright, artificial light. But some people with SAD do not respond to light
therapy alone. Antidepressant medicines and talk therapy can reduce SAD
symptoms, either alone or combined with light therapy.

NIH: National Institute of Mental Health

## Learn More

    * Light Therapy Boxes for Seasonal Affective Disorder (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Psychotherapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Seasonal Affective Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)
    * Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Seasonal Affective Disorder Sufferers Have More Than Just Winter Blues (American Psychological Association)
    * Seasonal Affective Disorder: For Teens (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: seasonal affective disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Seasonal Affective Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The prevalence of seasonal affective disorder among the blind and patients...
    * Article: Melatonin and agomelatine for preventing seasonal affective disorder.
    * Article: Psychological therapies for preventing seasonal affective disorder.

## Patient Handouts

    * Seasonal affective disorder (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Seasonal Affective
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SeasonAffectiveDisorder.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Seasonal Affective Disorder is
the National Institute of Mental Health

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 July 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

