Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007445.htm    
                                Description: The flu is a serious illness. The virus is easily spread, and children are very susceptible to the illness. Knowing the facts about the flu, its symptoms, and when to get vaccinated are all important in    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Your child and the flu

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007445.htm

# Your child and the flu

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The flu is a serious illness. The virus is easily spread, and children are
very susceptible to the illness. Knowing the facts about the flu, its
symptoms, and when to get vaccinated are all important in the fight against
its spread.

This article has been put together to help you protect your child over the age
of 2 from the flu. This is not a substitute for medical advice from your
health care provider. If you think your child may have the flu, call your
provider right away.

## Information

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS I SHOULD WATCH FOR IN MY CHILD?

The flu is an infection of the nose, throat, and (sometimes) lungs. Your young
child with the flu will most often have a fever of 100Â°F (37.8Â°C) or higher
and a sore throat or a cough. Other symptoms you may notice:

    * Chills, sore muscles, and headache
    * Runny nose
    * Acting tired and cranky much of the time
    * Diarrhea and vomiting

When your child's fever goes down, many of these symptoms should get better.

HOW SHOULD I TREAT MY CHILD'S FEVER?

Do NOT bundle up a child with blankets or extra clothes, even if your child
has the chills. This may keep their fever from coming down, or make it higher.

    * Try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket for sleep.
    * The room should be comfortable, not too hot or too cool. If the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) help lower fever in
children. Sometimes, your provider will tell you to use both types of
medicine.

    * Know how much your child weighs, and then always check the instructions on the package.
    * Give acetaminophen every 4Â to 6 hours.
    * Give ibuprofen every 6Â to 8 hours. Do NOT use ibuprofen in children younger than 6 months old.
    * Never give aspirin to children unless your child's provider tells you to use it.

A fever does not need to come all the way down to normal. Most children will
feel better when the temperature drops by even 1 degree.

    * A lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool a fever. It works better if the child also is given medicine -- otherwise the temperature might bounce right back up.
    * Do NOT use cold baths, ice, or alcohol rubs. These often cause shivering and make things worse.

WHAT ABOUT FEEDING MY CHILD WHEN HE OR SHE IS SICK?

Your child can eat foods while having a fever, but do not force the child to
eat. Encourage your child to drink fluids to prevent dehydration.

Children with the flu often do better with bland foods. A bland diet is made
up of foods that are soft, not very spicy, and low in fiber. You may try:

    * Breads, crackers, and pasta made with refined white flour.
    * Refined hot cereals, such as oatmeal and Cream of Wheat.
    * Fruit juices that are diluted by mixing half water and half juice. Do not give your child too much fruit or apple juice.
    * Frozen fruit popsÂ or gelatin (Jell-O) are good choices, especially if the child is vomiting.

WILL MY CHILD NEED ANTIVIRALS OR OTHER MEDICINES?

Children aged 2 to 4 years without high-risk conditions and with mild illness
may not need antiviral treatment. Children 5 years and older will often not be
given antivirals unless they have another high-risk condition.

When needed, these medicines work best if started within 48 hours after
symptoms begin, if possible.

Either oseltamivir (Tamiflu) or zanamivir (Relenza) are used.

    * Oseltamivir comes as a capsule or in a liquid.
    * Zanamivir is taken by inhaler.

Serious side effects from these medicines are quite rare. Providers and
parents must balance the risk for rare side effects against the risk that
their children can become quite sick and even die from the flu.

Talk to your provider before giving any over-the-counter cold medicines to
your child.

WHEN SHOULD MY CHILD SEE A DOCTOR OR VISIT AN EMERGENCY ROOM?

Talk to your child's provider or go to the emergency room if:

    * Your child does not act alert or more comfortable when their fever goes down.
    * Fever and flu symptoms come back after they had gone away.
    * There are no tears when they're crying.

SHOULD MY CHILD GET VACCINATED AGAINST THE FLU?

Even if your child has had a flu-like illness, they should still get the flu
vaccine. All children 6 months or older should receive the vaccine. Children
under 9 years will need a second flu vaccine around 4 weeks after receiving
the vaccine for the first time.

There are two types of flu vaccine. One is given as a shot, and the other is
sprayed into your child's nose.

    * The flu shot contain killed (inactive) viruses. It is not possible to get the flu from this type of vaccine. The flu shot is approved for people age 6 months and older.
    * A nasal spray-type swine flu vaccine uses a live, weakened virus instead of a dead one like the flu shot. It is approved for healthy children over 2 years. It should not be used in children who have repeated wheezing episodes, asthma, or other long-term (chronic) respiratory diseases.

WHAT ARE THE SIDE EFFECTS OF THE VACCINE?

It is not possible to get the flu from either the injection or shot flu
vaccine. However, some people do get a low-grade fever for a day or two after
the shot.

Most people have no side effects from the flu shot. Some people have soreness
at the injection site or minor aches and low-grade fever for several days.

Normal side effects of the nasal flu vaccine include fever, headache, runny
nose, vomiting, and some wheezing. Although these symptoms sound like symptoms
of the flu, the side effects do not become a severe or life-threatening flu
infection.

WILL THE VACCINE HARM MY CHILD?

A small amount of mercury (called thimerosal) is a common preservative in
multidose vaccines. Despite concerns, thimerosal-containing vaccines have NOT
been shown to cause autism, ADHD, or any other medical problems.

If you have concerns about mercury, all of the routine vaccines are also
available without added thimerosal.

WHAT ELSE CAN I DO TO PROTECT MY CHILD FROM THE FLU?

Everyone who comes in close contact with your child should follow these tips:

    * Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue away after using it.
    * Wash hands often with soap and water for 15Â to 20 seconds, especially after you cough or sneeze. You may also use alcohol-based hand cleaners.
    * Wear a face mask if you have had flu symptoms, or preferably, stay away from children.

If your child is less than 5 years old and has close contact with someone with
flu symptoms, talk with your provider.

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Prevention and control of
seasonal influenza with vaccines, 2017-18.
www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/acip/index.htm. Updated October 11, 2017.
Accessed October 12, 2017.

Grohskopf LA, Sokolow LZ, Broder KR, et al. Prevention and control of seasonal
influenza with vaccines: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices - United States, 2017-18 influenza season. _MMWR Recomm
Rep_. 2017;66(2):1-20. PMID: 28841201 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28841201.

Havers FP, Campbell AJP. Influenza viruses. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 258.

## Review Date 9/5/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Children's
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Children'sHealth_thumb.jpg)Children's
Health _Read more_

![Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Flu_thumb.jpg)Flu _Read more_

![H1N1 Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/H1N1_thumb.jpg)H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu)
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

