Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007421.htm    
                                Description: The H1N1 virus (swine flu) is an infection of the nose, throat, and lungs. It is caused by the H1N1 influenza virus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

H1N1 influenza (Swine flu)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007421.htm

# H1N1 influenza (Swine flu)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The H1N1 virus (swine flu) is an infection of the nose, throat, and lungs. It
is caused by the H1N1 influenza virus.

## Causes

Earlier forms of the H1N1 virus were found in pigs (swine). Over time, the
virus changed (mutated) and infected humans. H1N1 is a new virus first
detected in humans in 2009. It spread quickly around the world.

The H1N1 virus is now considered a regular flu virus. It is one of the three
viruses included in the regular (seasonal) flu vaccine.

You cannot get H1N1 flu virus from eating pork or any other food, drinking
water, swimming in pools, or using hot tubs or saunas.

Any flu virus can spread from person to person when:

    * Someone with the flu coughs or sneezes into air that others breathe in.
    * Someone touches a doorknob, desk, computer, or counter with the flu virus on it and then touches their mouth, eyes, or nose.
    * Someone touches mucus while taking care of a child or adult who is ill with the flu. 

Symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of H1N1 influenza is similar to that for
the flu in general.

## Alternative Names

Swine flu; H1N1 type A influenza

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
    * When your baby or infant has a fever

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Influenza (flu).
www.cdc.gov/flu/index.htm. Updated May 17, 2019. Accessed May 31, 2019.

Treanor JJ. Influenza (including avian influenza and swine influenza). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 167.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![H1N1 Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/H1N1_thumb.jpg)H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu)
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

