Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007444.htm    
                                Description: The flu is an easily spread disease. Children under age 2 have a higher risk of developing complications if they get the flu.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Your baby and the flu

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007444.htm

# Your baby and the flu

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The flu is an easily spread disease. Children under age 2 have a higher risk
of developing complications if they get the flu.

The information in this article has been put together to help you protect
children under age 2 from the flu. This is not a substitute for medical advice
from your health care provider. If you think your baby may have the flu, you
should contact a provider right away.

## Information

FLU SYMPTOMS IN INFANTS AND TODDLERS

The flu is an infection of the nose, throat, and (sometimes) lungs. Call your
baby's provider if you notice any of the following signs:

    * Acting tired and cranky much of the time and not feeding well
    * Cough
    * Diarrhea and vomiting
    * Has a fever or feels feverish (if no thermometer available)
    * Runny nose 

HOW IS THE FLU TREATED IN BABIES?

Children younger than 2 years old will often need to be treated with medicine
that fights off the flu virus. This is called antiviral medicine. The medicine
works best if started within 48 hours after symptoms begin, if possible.

Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) in liquid form will likely be used. Although this drug
is not approved for use in children younger than 1 year of age, serious side
effects are quite rare. After talking about the risk of side effects against
the possible complications of the flu in your baby, you and your provider may
decide to use this medicine to treat the flu.

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) help lower fever in
children. Sometimes, your provider will tell you to use both types of
medicine.

Always check with your provider before giving any cold medicines to your
infant or toddler.

SHOULD MY BABY GET THE FLU VACCINE?

All infants 6 months or older should get the flu vaccine, even if they have
had a flu-like illness. The flu vaccine is not approved for children under 6
months old.

    * Your child will need a second flu vaccine around 4 weeks after receiving the vaccine for the first time.
    * There are two types of flu vaccine. One is given as a shot, and the other is sprayed into your child's nose. 

The flu shot contains killed (inactive) viruses. It is not possible to get the
flu from this type of vaccine. The flu shot is approved for people age 6
months and older.

A nasal spray-type flu vaccine uses a live, weakened virus instead of a dead
one like the flu shot. It is approved for healthy children over 2 years.

Anyone who lives with or has close contact with a child younger than 6 months
old should also have a flu shot.

WILL THE VACCINE HARM MY BABY?

You or your baby can NOT get the flu from either vaccine. Some children may
get a low-grade fever for a day or two after the shot. If more severe symptoms
develop or they last for more than 2 days, you should call your provider.

Some parents are afraid the vaccine could hurt their baby. But children under
2 years of age are more likely to get a severe case of the flu. It is hard to
predict how ill your child may get from flu because children often have a mild
illness at first. They may become sick very fast.

A small amount of mercury (called thimerosal) is a common preservative in
multidose vaccines. Despite concerns, thimerosal-containing vaccines have NOT
been shown to cause autism, ADHD, or any other medical problems.

However, all of the routine vaccines are also available without added
thimerosal. Ask your provider if they offer this type of vaccine.

HOW CAN I PREVENT MY BABY FROM GETTING THE FLU?

Anyone who has flu symptoms should not care for a newborn or infant, including
feeding. If a person with symptoms must care for the child, the caretaker
should use a face mask and wash their hands well. Everyone who comes in close
contact with your baby should do the following:

    * Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue away after using it.
    * Wash your hands often with soap and water for 15Â to 20 seconds, especially after you cough or sneeze. You may also use alcohol-based hand cleaners. 

If your baby is younger than 6 months old and has close contact with someone
with the flu, inform your provider.

IF I HAVE FLU SYMPTOMS, CAN I BREASTFEED MY BABY?

If a mother is not ill with the flu, breastfeeding is encouraged.

If you are sick, you may need to express your milk for use in bottle feedings
given by a healthy person. It is unlikely a newborn can catch flu from
drinking your breast milk when you are sick. Breast milk is considered safe if
you are taking antivirals.

WHEN SHOULD I CALL THE DOCTOR?

Talk to your child's provider or go to the emergency room if:

    * Your child does not act alert or more comfortable when the fever goes down.
    * Fever and flu symptoms come back after they have gone away.
    * The child does not have tears when crying.
    * The child's diapers are not wet, or the child has not urinated for the last 8 hours. 

## Alternative Names

Babies and the flu; Your infant and the flu; Your toddler and the flu

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Prevention and control of
seasonal influenza with vaccines, 2017-18.
www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/acip/index.htm. September 22, 2017. Accessed
October 12, 2017.

Grohskopf LA, Sokolow LZ, Broder KR, et al. Prevention and control of seasonal
influenza with vaccines: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices - United States, 2017-18 influenza season. _MMWR Recomm
Rep_. 2017;66(2):1-20. PMID: 28841201 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28841201.

Havers FP, Campbell AJP. Influenza viruses. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 258.

## Review Date 9/5/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Flu_thumb.jpg)Flu _Read more_

![H1N1 Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/H1N1_thumb.jpg)H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu)
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

