Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007443.htm    
                                Description: During pregnancy, it is harder for a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pregnancy and the flu

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007443.htm

# Pregnancy and the flu

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

During pregnancy, it is harder for a woman's immune system to fight
infections. This makes a pregnant woman more likely to get the flu and other
diseases.

Pregnant women are more likely than nonpregnant women their age to become very
ill if they get the flu. If you are pregnant, you need to take special steps
to stay healthy during the flu season.

This article gives you information about the flu and pregnancy. It is not a
substitute for medical advice from your health care provider. If you think you
have the flu, you should contact your provider's office immediately.

## Information

WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF FLU DURING PREGNANCY?

Flu symptoms are the same for everyone and include:

    * Cough
    * Sore throat
    * Runny nose
    * Fever of 100Â°F (37.8Â°C) or higher 

Other symptoms may include body aches, headache, fatigue, vomiting, and
diarrhea.

SHOULD I GET THE FLU VACCINE IF I AM PREGNANT?

If you are pregnant or thinking about becoming pregnant, you should get the
flu vaccine. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) considers
pregnant women at a higher risk for getting the flu and developing flu-related
complications.

Pregnant women who get the flu vaccine get sick less often. They are also very
unlikely to get a bad case of the flu that can harm them or their baby.

Getting a mild case of the flu is often not harmful to mother or child.
However, the fluÂ vaccine can prevent the severe cases of the flu that can
harm mother and baby.

Flu vaccines are available at most provider offices and health clinics. There
are two types of flu vaccines: the flu shot and a nose-spray vaccine.

    * The flu shot is recommended for pregnant women. It contains killed (inactive) viruses. You cannot get the flu from this vaccine.
    * The nasal spray-type flu vaccine is not approved for pregnant women. 

It is OK for a pregnant woman to be around somebody who has received the nasal
flu vaccine.

WILL THE VACCINE HARM MY BABY?

A small amount of mercury (called thimerosal) is a common preservative in
multidose vaccines. Despite some concerns, vaccines that contain this
substance have NOT been shown to cause autism or attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder.

If you have concerns about mercury, ask your provider about a preservative-
free vaccine. All routine vaccines are also available without added
thimerosal. The CDC says pregnant women may get fluÂ vaccines either with or
without thimerosal.

WHAT ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS OF THE VACCINE?

Common side effects of the flu vaccine are mild, but can include:

    * Redness or tenderness where the shot was given
    * Headache
    * Muscle aches
    * Fever
    * Nausea and vomiting 

If side effects occur, they most often begin soon after the shot. They may
last as long as 1Â to 2 days. If you have side effects that last longer than 2
days, you should call your provider.

HOW DO I TREAT THE FLU IF I'M PREGNANT?

Experts recommend treating pregnant women with flu-like illness as soon as
possible after they develop symptoms.

    * Testing is not needed for most people. Providers should not wait for results of testing before treating pregnant women. Rapid tests are often available in urgent care clinics and provider's offices.
    * It is best to start antiviral medicines within the first 48 hours of developing symptoms, but antivirals can also be used after this time period. A 75 mg capsule of oseltamivir (Tamiflu) twice per day for 5 days is the recommended first choice antiviral.

WILL ANTIVIRAL MEDICINES HARM MY BABY?

You may be worried about the medicines harming your baby. However, it is
important to realize there are severe risks if you do not get treatment:

    * In past flu outbreaks, pregnant women who were otherwise healthy were more likely than those who were not pregnant to become very sick or even die.
    * This does not mean that all pregnant women will have a severe infection, but it is hard to predict who will become very ill. Women who become more ill with the flu will have mild symptoms at first.
    * Pregnant women can become very sick very fast, even if the symptoms are not bad at first.
    * Women who develop a high fever or pneumonia are at higher risk for early labor or delivery and other harm.

DO I NEED AN ANTIVIRAL DRUG IF I HAVE BEEN AROUND SOMEONE WITH THE FLU?

You are more likely to get the flu if you have close contact with someone who
already has it.

Close contact means:

    * Eating or drinking with the same utensils
    * Caring for children who are sick with the flu
    * Being near the droplets or secretions from someone who sneezes, coughs, or has a runny nose 

If you have been around someone who has the flu, ask your provider if you need
an antiviral drug.

WHAT TYPES OF COLD MEDICINE CAN I TAKE FOR THE FLU IF I'M PREGNANT?

Many cold medicines contain more than one type of medicine. Some may be safer
than others, but none are proven 100% safe. In general, it is best to avoid
cold medicines, if possible, especially during the first 3 to 4 months of
pregnancy.

The best self-care steps for taking care of yourself when you have the flu
include rest and drinking plenty of liquids, especially water. Tylenol is most
often safe in standard doses to relieve pain or discomfort. To be safe, it is
best to talk to your provider before taking any cold medicines while you are
pregnant.

WHAT ELSE CAN I DO TO PROTECT MYSELF AND MY BABY FROM THE FLU?

There are many things you can do to help protect yourself and your unborn
child from the flu.

    * You should avoid sharing food, utensils, or cups with others.
    * Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and throat.
    * Wash your hands often, using soap and warm water.

Carry hand sanitizer with you, and use it when you are unable to wash with
soap and water.

## References

Bernstein HB. Maternal and perinatal infection in pregnancy: viral. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

Committee on Obstetric Practice and Immunization Expert Work Group; Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention's Advisory Committee on Immunization,
United States; American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Committee
opinion no. 608: influenza vaccination during pregnancy. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2014;124(3);648-51. PMID: 25162283 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25162283.

Fiore AE, Fry A, Shay D, et al; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC). Antiviral agents for the treatment and chemoprophylaxis of influenza --
recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP).
_MMWR Recomm Rep_. 2011;60(1):1-24. PMID: 21248682
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21248682.

Hayden FG. Influenza. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 364.

## Review Date 7/17/2017

Updated by: Cynthia D. White, MD, Fellow American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists, Group Health Cooperative, Bellevue, WA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Flu_thumb.jpg)Flu _Read more_

![H1N1 Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/H1N1_thumb.jpg)H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu)
_Read more_

![Infections and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectionsandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Infections
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

