Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000865.htm    
                                Description: Whether you are exercising in warm weather or in a steamy gym, you are more at risk for overheating. Learn how heat affects your body, and get tips for staying cool when it is warm out. Being prepared    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to avoid overheating during exercise

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000865.htm

# How to avoid overheating during exercise

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Whether you are exercising in warm weather or in a steamy gym, you are more at
risk for overheating. Learn how heat affects your body, and get tips for
staying cool when it is warm out. Being prepared can help you safely work out
in most conditions.

## How Heat Affects Your Body

Your body has a natural cooling system. It is always working to maintain a
safe temperature. Sweating helps your body cool down.

When you exercise in the heat, your cooling system has to work harder. Your
body sends more blood to your skin and away from your muscles. This increases
your heart rate. You sweat a lot, losing fluids in your body. If it is humid,
sweat stays on your skin, which makes it hard for your body to cool itself.

Warm-weather exercise puts you at risk for heat emergencies, such as:

    * Heat cramps. Muscle cramps, usually in the legs or stomach (caused by loss of salt from sweating). This may be the first sign of overheating.
    * Heat exhaustion. Heavy sweating, cold and clammy skin, nausea and vomiting.
    * Heatstroke. When the body temperature rises above 104Â°F (40Â°C). Heatstroke is a life-threatening condition. 

Children, older adults, and obese people have a higher risk for these
illnesses. People taking certain medicines and people with heart disease also
have a higher risk. However, even a top athlete in superb condition can get
heat illness.

## Stay Cool During Exercise

Try these tips to help prevent heat-related illness:

    * Drink plenty of fluids. Drink before, during, and after your workout. Drink even if you do not feel thirsty. You can tell you are getting enough if your urine is light or very pale yellow.
    * DO NOT drink alcohol, caffeine, or drinks with a lot of sugar, such as soda. They can cause you to lose fluids.
    * Water is your best choice for less-intense workouts. If you will be exercising for a couple of hours, you may want to choose a sports drink. These replace salts and minerals as well as fluids. Choose lower-calorie options. They have less sugar.
    * Make sure the water or sports drinks are cool, but not too cold. Very cold drinks may cause stomach cramps.
    * Limit your training on very hot days. Try training in early morning or later at night.
    * Choose the right clothing for your activity. Lighter colors and wicking fabrics are good choices.
    * Protect yourself from direct sun with sunglasses and a hat. DO NOT forget sunscreen (SPF 30 or higher).
    * Rest often in shady areas or try to stay on the shady side of a walking or hiking trail.
    * DO NOT take salt tablets. They can increase your risk for dehydration.

## Signs of Heat Illness

Know the early warning signs of heat exhaustion:

    * Heavy sweating
    * Tiredness
    * Thirsty
    * Muscle cramps

Later signs may include:

    * Weakness
    * Dizziness
    * Headache
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Cool, moist skin
    * Dark urine

Signs of heatstroke may include:

    * Fever (over 104Â°F [40Â°C])
    * Red, hot, dry skin
    * Rapid, shallow breathing
    * Rapid, weak pulse
    * Irrational behavior
    * Extreme confusion
    * Seizure
    * Loss of consciousness

As soon as you notice early signs of a heat illness, get out of the heat or
sun right away. Remove extra layers of clothing. Drink water or a sports
drink.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have signs of heat exhaustion and do not
feel better 1 hour after getting away from heat and drinking fluids.

Call 911 or your local emergency number for signs of heatstroke.

## Alternative Names

Heat exhaustion; Heat cramps; Heatstroke

## Images

    * ![Energy levels](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9296t.jpg)Energy levels

## References

American Academy of Family Physicians website. Hydration for athletes.
familydoctor.org/athletes-the-importance-of-good-hydration. Updated May 11
2017. Accessed August 10, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Extreme heat.
www.cdc.gov/disasters/extremeheat. Updated May 21, 2018. Accessed August 10,
2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Keep your cool in hot
weather. www.cdc.gov/features/extremeheat. Updated July 2, 2018. Accessed
August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Exercise and Physical Fitness
    * Heat Illness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

