Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003094.htm    
                                Description: Heat intolerance is a feeling of being overheated when the temperature around you rises. It can often cause heavy sweating.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heat intolerance

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003094.htm

# Heat intolerance

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heat intolerance is a feeling of being overheated when the temperature around
you rises. It can often cause heavy sweating.

Heat intolerance usually comes on slowly and lasts for a long time, but it may
also occur quickly and be a serious illness.

## Causes

Heat intolerance may be caused by:

    * Amphetamines or other stimulants, such as those found in drugs that suppress your appetite
    * Anxiety
    * Caffeine
    * Menopause
    * Too much thyroid hormone (thyrotoxicosis) 

## Home Care

Exposure to extreme heat and sun can cause heat emergencies or illnesses. You
can prevent heat illnesses by:

    * Drinking plenty of fluids
    * Keeping inside room temperatures at a comfortable level
    * Limiting how much time you spend outdoors in hot, humid weather 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have unexplained heat intolerance.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical examination.

Your provider may ask you questions like these:

    * When do your symptoms occur?
    * Have you had heat intolerance before?
    * Is it worse when you exercise?
    * Do you have vision changes?
    * Are you dizzy or fainting?
    * Do you have sweating or flushing?
    * Do you have numbness or weakness?
    * Is your heart beating fast, or do you have a rapid pulse?

Tests that may be performed include:

    * Blood studies
    * Thyroid studies (TSH, T3, free T4)

## Alternative Names

Sensitivity to heat; Intolerance to heat

## References

Davies TF, Laurberg P, Bahn RS. Hyperthyroid disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

Sawka MN, O'Connor FG. Disorders due to heat and cold. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 109.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedades causadas por el
calor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeatIllness2_thumb.jpg)Heat Illness
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

