Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000056.htm    
                                Description: Heat emergencies or illnesses are caused by exposure to extreme heat and sun. Heat illnesses can be prevented by being careful in hot, humid weather.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heat emergencies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000056.htm

# Heat emergencies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heat emergencies or illnesses are caused by exposure to extreme heat and sun.
Heat illnesses can be prevented by being careful in hot, humid weather.

## Causes

Heat injuries can occur due to high temperatures and humidity. You are more
likely to feel the effects of heat sooner if:

    * You are not used to high temperatures or high humidity.
    * You are a child or an older adult.
    * You are already ill from another cause or have been injured.
    * You are obese.
    * You are also exercising. Even a person who is in good shape can suffer heat illness if warning signs are ignored. 

The following make it harder for the body to regulateÂ its temperature, and
make a heat emergency more likely:

    * Drinking alcohol before or during exposure to heat or high humidity
    * Not drinking enough fluids when you're active on warmer or hot days
    * Heart disease
    * Certain medicines: Examples are beta-blockers, water pills or diuretics, some medicines used to treat depression, psychosis, or ADHD
    * Sweat gland problems
    * Wearing too much clothing 

## Symptoms

Heat cramps are the first stage of heat illness. If these symptoms are not
treated, it can lead to heat exhaustion and then heat stroke.

Heat stroke occurs when the body is no longer able to regulateÂ its
temperature, and it keeps rising. Heat stroke can cause shock, brain damage,
organ failure, and even death.

The early symptoms of heat cramps include:

    * Muscle cramps and pains that most often occur in the legs or abdomen
    * Very heavy sweating
    * Fatigue
    * Thirst

Later symptoms of heat exhaustion include:

    * Headache
    * Dizziness, lightheadedness
    * Weakness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Cool, moist skin
    * Dark urine

The symptoms of heatstroke include (call 911 or the local emergency number
right away):

    * Fever --Â temperature above 104Â°F (40Â°C)
    * Irrational behavior
    * Extreme confusion
    * Dry, hot, and red skin
    * Rapid, shallow breathing
    * Rapid, weak pulse 
    * Seizures
    * Unconsciousness

## First Aid

If you think a person may have heat illness or emergency:

    1. Have the person lie down in a cool place. Raise the person's feet about 12 inches (30 centimeters).
    2. Apply cool, wet cloths (or cool water directly) to the person's skin and use a fan to lower body temperature. Place cold compresses on the person's neck, groin, and armpits.
    3. If alert, give the person a beverage to sip (such as aÂ sports drink), or make a salted drink by adding a teaspoon (6 grams) of salt per quart (1 liter) of water. Give a half cup (120 milliliters) every 15 minutes. Cool water will do if salt beverages are not available.
    4. For muscle cramps, give beverages as noted above and massage affected muscles gently, but firmly, until they relax.
    5. If the person shows signs of shock (bluish lips and fingernails and decreased alertness), starts having seizures, or loses consciousness, call 911 and give first aid as needed.

## DO NOT

Follow these precautions:

    * DO NOT give the person medicines that are used to treat fever (such as aspirin or acetaminophen). They will not help, and they may be harmful.
    * DO NOT give the person salt tablets.
    * DO NOT give the person liquids that contain alcohol or caffeine. They will make it harder for the body to control its internal temperature.
    * DO NOT use alcohol rubs on the person's skin.
    * DO NOT give the person anything by mouth (not even salted drinks) if the person is vomiting or unconscious. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if:

    * The person loses consciousness at any time.
    * There is any other change in the person's alertness (for example, confusion or seizures).
    * The person has a fever over 102Â°F (38.9Â°C).
    * Other symptoms of heatstroke are present (like rapid pulse or rapid breathing).
    * The person's condition does not improve, or worsens despite treatment. 

## Prevention

The first step in preventing heat illnesses is thinking ahead.

    * Find out what the temperature will be for the whole day when you will be outdoors. 
    * Think about how you have dealt with heat in the past.
    * Make sure you will have plenty of fluids to drink.
    * Find out if there is shade available where you are going.
    * Learn the early signs of heat illness.

To help prevent heat illnesses:

    * Wear loose-fitting, lightweight and light-colored clothing in hot weather.
    * Rest often and seek shade when possible.
    * Avoid exercise or heavy physical activity outdoors during hot or humid weather.
    * Drink plenty of fluids every day. Drink more fluids before, during, and after physical activity.
    * Be very careful to avoid overheating if you are taking drugs that impair heat regulation, or if you are overweight or an older person.
    * Be careful of hot cars in the summer. Allow the car to cool off before getting in.
    * NEVER leave a child sitting in a car exposed to the hot sun, even after opening windows.

## Alternative Names

Heatstroke; Heat illness

## Images

    * ![Heat emergencies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17211t.jpg)Heat emergencies

## References

Platt M, Price MG. Heat illness. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 133.

Sawka MN, O'Connor FG. Disorders due to heat and cold. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 109.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedades causadas por el
calor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeatIllness2_thumb.jpg)Heat Illness
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

