Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000286.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove your spleen. This operation is called splenectomy. Now that you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laparoscopic spleen removal in adults - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000286.htm

# Laparoscopic spleen removal in adults - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove your spleen. This operation is called splenectomy.
Now that you're going home, follow your health care provider's instructions on
how to care for yourself while you heal.

## When You're in the Hospital

The type of surgery you had is called laparoscopic splenectomy. The surgeon
made 3 to 4 small cuts (incisions) in your belly. The laparoscope and other
medical instruments were inserted through these cuts. A harmless gas was
pumped into your belly to expand the area to help your surgeon see better.

## What to Expect at Home

Recovering from surgery usually takes several weeks. You may have some of
these symptoms as you recover:

    * Pain around the incisions. When you first get home, you may also feel pain in one or both shoulders. This pain comes from any gas still left in your belly after the surgery. It should go away over several days to a week.
    * A sore throat from the breathing tube that helped you breathe during surgery. Sucking on ice chips or gargling may be soothing.
    * Nausea, and maybe throwing up. Your surgeon can prescribe nausea medicine if you need it.
    * Bruising or redness around your wounds. This will go away on its own.
    * Problems taking deep breaths. 

## Activity

Make sure your home is safe as you are recovering. For example, remove throw
rugs to prevent tripping and falling. Be sure that you can use your shower or
bathtub safely. Have someone stay with you for a few days until you can get
around better on your own.

Start walking soon after surgery. Begin your everyday activities as soon as
you feel up to it. Move around the house, shower, and use the stairs at home
during the first week. If it hurts when you do something, stop doing that
activity.

You may be able to drive after 7 to 10 days if you are not taking narcotic
pain medicines. DO NOT do any heavy lifting or straining for the first 1 to 2
weeks after surgery. If you lift or strain and feel any pain or pulling on the
incisions, avoid that activity.

You may be able to go back to a desk job within a few weeks. It can take up to
6 to 8 weeks to get your normal energy level back.

## Managing Pain

Your doctor will prescribe pain medicines for you to use at home. If you are
taking pain pills 3 or 4 times a day, try taking them at the same times each
day for 3 to 4 days. They may work better this way. Ask your surgeon about
taking acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen for pain instead of narcotic pain
medicine.

Try getting up and moving around if you are having some pain in your belly.
This may ease your pain.

Press a pillow over your incision when you cough or sneeze to ease discomfort
and protect your incision.

## Wound Care

If stitches, staples, or glue were used to close your skin, you may remove any
dressings (bandages) and take a shower the day after surgery.

If strips of tape were used to close your skin, cover the incisions with
plastic wrap before showering for the first week. DO NOT try to wash the tape
off. They will fall off in about a week.

DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub or go swimming until your surgeon tells
you it is OK (usually 1 week).

## Preventing Infections

Most people live a normal active life without a spleen. But there is always a
risk of getting an infection. This is because the spleen is part of the body's
immune system, helping fight infections.

After your spleen is removed, you will be more likely to get infections:

    * For the first week after surgery, check your temperature every day.
    * Tell the surgeon right away if you have a fever, sore throat, headache, belly pain, or diarrhea, or an injury that breaks your skin. 

Keeping up to date on your immunizations will be very important. Ask your
doctor if you should have these vaccines:

    * Pneumonia
    * Meningococcal
    * Haemophilus
    * Flu shot (every year) 

Things you can do to help prevent infections:

    * Eat healthy foods to keep your immune system strong.
    * Avoid crowds for the first 2 weeks after you go home.
    * Wash your hands often with soap and water. Ask family members to do the same.
    * Get treated for any bites, human or animal, right away.
    * Protect your skin when you are camping or hiking or doing other outdoor activities. Wear long sleeves and pants.
    * Tell your doctor if you plan to travel out of the country.
    * Tell all of your health care providers (dentist, doctors, nurses, or nurse practitioners) that you do not have a spleen.
    * Buy and wear a bracelet that indicates you do not have a spleen. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon or nurse if you have any of the following:

    * Temperature of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or higher
    * Incisions are bleeding, red or warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or pus-like drainage
    * Your pain medicines are not working
    * It is hard to breathe
    * Cough that does not go away
    * Cannot drink or eat
    * Develop a skin rash and feel ill 

## Alternative Names

Splenectomy - microscopic - discharge; Laparoscopic splenectomy - discharge

## References

Mier F, Hunter JG. Laparoscopic splenectomy. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1505-1509.

Poulose BK, Holzman MD. The spleen. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 56.

## Read More

    * Spleen removal

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Spleen Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

