Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003825.htm    
                                Description: A liver scan uses a radioactive material to check how well the liver or spleen is working and to assess masses in the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Liver scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003825.htm

# Liver scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A liver scan uses a radioactive material to check how well the liver or spleen
is working and to assess masses in the liver.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider will inject a radioactive material called a
radioisotope into one of your veins. After the liver has soaked up the
material, you will be asked to lie on a table under the scanner.

The scanner can tell where the radioactive material has gathered in the body.
Images are displayed on a computer. You may be asked to remain still, or to
change positions during the scan.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked to sign a consent form. You will be asked to remove jewelry,
dentures, and other metals that can affect the scanner's functions.

You may need to wear a hospital gown.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sharp prick when the needle is inserted into your vein. You
should not feel anything during the actual scan. If you have problems lying
still or are very anxious, you may be given a mild medicine (sedative) to help
you relax.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test can provide information about liver and spleen function. It is also
used to help confirm other test results.

The most common use for a liver scan is to diagnose a condition called benign
focal nodular hyperplasia, or FNH, which causes a non-cancerous mass in the
liver.

## Normal Results

The liver and spleen should look normal in size, shape, and location. The
radioisotope is absorbed evenly.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * Focal nodular hyperplasia or adenoma of the liver
    * Abscess
    * Budd-Chiari syndrome
    * Infection
    * Liver disease (such as cirrhosis or hepatitis)
    * Superior vena cava obstruction
    * Splenic infarction (tissue death)
    * Tumors 

## Risks

Radiation from any scan is always a slight concern. The level of radiation in
this procedure is less than that of most x-rays. It is not considered to be
enough to cause harm to the average person.

Pregnant or nursing women should consult their provider before any exposure to
radiation.

## Considerations

Other tests may be needed to confirm the findings of this test. These may
include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Liver biopsy

This test is used infrequently. Instead, MRI or CT scans are more often used
to evaluate the liver and spleen.

## Alternative Names

Technetium scan; Liver technetium sulfur colloid scan; Liver-spleen
radionuclide scan; Nuclear scan - technetium; Nuclear scan - liver or spleen

## Images

    * ![Liver scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9534t.jpg)Liver scan

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Hepatobiliary scan (HIDA Scan) - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:635-636.

Madoff SD, Burak JS, Math KR, Walz DM. Knee imaging techniques and normal
anatomy. In: Scott NW, ed. _Insall & Scott Surgery of the Knee_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Mettler FA, Guiberteau MJ. Gastrointestinal tract. In: Mettler FA, Guiberteau
MJ, eds. _Essentials of Nuclear Medicine Imaging_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.

Narayanan S, Abdalla WAK, Tadros S. Fundamentals of pediatric radiology. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
25.

Tirkes T, Sandrasegaran K. Investigative imaging of the liver. In: Saxena R,
ed. _Practical Hepatic Pathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

## Review Date 12/23/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![Enfermedades del
bazo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpleenDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spleen Diseases
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

