Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003276.htm    
                                Description: Splenomegaly is a larger-than-normal spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper left part of the belly.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Splenomegaly

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003276.htm

# Splenomegaly

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Splenomegaly is a larger-than-normal spleen. The spleen is an organ in the
upper left part of the belly.

## Considerations

The spleen is an organ that is a part of the lymph system. The spleen filters
the blood and maintains healthy red and white blood cells and platelets. It
also plays a role in immune function.

Many health conditions can affect the spleen. These include:

    * Diseases of the blood or lymph system
    * Infections
    * Cancer
    * Liver disease

Symptoms of splenomegaly include:

    * Hiccups 
    * Inability to eat a large meal 
    * Pain in the upper left side of the belly

## Causes

Splenomegaly can be caused by any of the following:

    * Infections
    * Liver diseases 
    * Blood diseases 
    * Cancer

## Home Care

In rare cases, an injury can rupture the spleen. If you have splenomegaly,
your health care provider may advise you to avoid contact sports. Your
provider will tell you what else you need to do to take care of yourself and
any medical condition.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

There are usually no symptoms from an enlarged spleen. Seek medical help right
away if pain in your belly is severe or gets worse when you take a deep
breath.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will ask about your symptoms and medical history.

A physical exam will be done. The provider will feel and tap along the upper
left part of your belly, especially just under the rib cage.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal x-ray, ultrasound, or CT scan
    * Blood tests, such as a complete blood count (CBC) and tests of your liver functionÂ 

Treatment depends on the cause of splenomegaly.

## Alternative Names

Spleen enlargement; Enlarged spleen; Spleen swelling

## Images

    * ![Splenomegaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17212t.jpg)Splenomegaly
    * ![Enlarged spleen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9943t.jpg)Enlarged spleen

## References

Armitage JO, Bierman PJ. Approach to the patient with lymphadenopathy and
splenomegaly. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 168.

Hertzberg BS, Middleton WD. Spleen. In: Hertzberg BS, Middleton WD, eds.
_Ultrasound: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

Vos PM, Barnard SA, Cooperberg PL. Benign and malignant lesions of the spleen.
In: Gore RM, Levine MS, eds. _Textbook of Gastrointestinal Radiology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 105.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Enfermedades del
bazo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpleenDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spleen Diseases
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

