Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001314.htm    
                                Description: Hypersplenism is an overactive spleen. The spleen is an organ found in the upper left side of your abdomen. The spleen helps filter old and damaged cells from your bloodstream. If your spleen is overactive,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypersplenism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001314.htm

# Hypersplenism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypersplenism is an overactive spleen. The spleen is an organ found in the
upper left side of your abdomen. The spleen helps filter old and damaged cells
from your bloodstream. If your spleen is overactive, it removes the blood
cells too early and too quickly.

The spleen plays a key role in helping your body fight infections. Problems
with the spleen can make you more likely to develop infections.

## Causes

Common causes of hypersplenism include:

    * Cirrhosis (advanced liver disease)
    * Lymphoma
    * Malaria
    * Tuberculosis
    * Various connective tissue and inflammatory diseases 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Enlarged spleen
    * Low level of one or more types of blood cells
    * Feeling full too soon after eating
    * Stomach pain on the left side 

## Images

    * ![Spleen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8933t.jpg)Spleen

## References

Arber DA. Spleen. In: Goldblum JR, Lamps LW, McKenney JK, Myers JL, eds.
_Rosai and Ackerman's Surgical Pathology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

Connell NT, Shurin SB, Schiffman F. The spleen and its disorders. In: Hoffman
R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 160.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Enfermedades del
bazo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpleenDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spleen Diseases
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

