Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000287.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove your spleen. This operation is called splenectomy. Now that you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Open spleen removal in adults - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000287.htm

# Open spleen removal in adults - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove your spleen. This operation is called splenectomy.
Now that you're going home, follow your health care provider's instructions on
how to care for yourself while you heal.

## When You're in the Hospital

The type of surgery you had is called open surgery. The surgeon made a cut
(incision) in the middle of your belly or on the left side of your belly just
below the ribs. If you are being treated for cancer, the surgeon probably also
removed the lymph nodes in your belly.

## What to Expect at Home

Recovering from surgery takes 4 to 8 weeks. You may have some of these
symptoms as you recover:

    * Pain around the incision for a few weeks. This pain should lessen over time.
    * Sore throat from the breathing tube that helped you breathe during surgery. Sucking on ice chips or gargling may help soothe your throat.
    * Nausea and maybe throwing up. Your surgeon can prescribe nausea medicine if you need it.
    * Bruising or skin redness around your wound. This will go away on its own.
    * Trouble taking deep breaths. 

If your spleen was removed for a blood disorder or lymphoma, you may need more
treatments. This depends on your medical disorder.

## Activity

Make sure your home is safe as you are recovering. For example, remove throw
rugs to prevent tripping and falling. Be sure that you can use your shower or
bath safely. Have someone stay with you for a few days until you are sure you
can take care of yourself.

You should be able to do most of your regular activities in 4 to 8 weeks.
Before that:

    * DO NOT lift anything heavy until your doctor says it is OK.
    * Avoid all strenuous activity. This includes heavy exercising, weightlifting, and other activities that make you breathe hard, strain, or have pain or discomfort.
    * Short walks and using stairs are OK.
    * Light housework is OK.
    * DO NOT push yourself too hard. Gradually increase how much you are active. 

## Managing Pain

Your doctor will prescribe pain medicines for you to use at home. If you are
taking pain pills 3 or 4 times a day, try taking them at the same times each
day for 3 to 4 days. They may be more effective this way. Ask your surgeon
about taking acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen for pain instead of narcotic
pain medicine.

Try getting up and moving around if you are having pain in your belly. This
may ease your pain.

Press a pillow over your incision when you cough or sneeze to ease discomfort
and protect your incision.

## Wound Care

Care for your incision as instructed. If the incision was covered with skin
glue, you may shower with soap the day after surgery. Pat the area dry. If you
have a dressing, change it daily and shower when your surgeon says it is ok.

If strips of tape were used to close your incision:

    * Cover the incision with plastic wrap before showering for the first week.
    * DO NOT try to wash off the tape or glue. It will fall off on its own in about a week. 

DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub or go swimming until your surgeon tells
you it is OK.

## Preventing Infections

Most people live a normal active life without a spleen. But there is always a
risk of getting an infection. This is because the spleen is part of the body's
immune system, helping fight infections.

After your spleen is removed, you will be more likely to get infections:

    * For the first week after surgery, check your temperature every day.
    * Tell the surgeon right away if you have a fever, sore throat, headache, belly pain, or diarrhea, or an injury that breaks your skin. 

Keeping up to date on your immunizations will be very important. Ask your
doctor if you should have these vaccines:

    * Pneumonia
    * Meningococcal
    * Haemophilus
    * Flu shot (every year) 

Things you can do to help prevent infections:

    * Eat healthy foods to keep your immune system strong.
    * Avoid crowds for the first 2 weeks after you go home.
    * Wash your hands often with soap and water. Ask family members to do the same.
    * Get treated for any bites, human or animal, right away.
    * Protect your skin when you are camping or hiking or doing other outdoor activities. Wear long sleeves and pants.
    * Tell your doctor if you plan to travel out of the country.
    * Tell all of your health care providers (dentist, doctors, nurses, or nurse practitioners) that you do not have a spleen.
    * Buy and wear a bracelet that indicates you do not have a spleen. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon or nurse if you have any of the following:

    * Temperature of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or higher
    * Incisions are bleeding, red or warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or pus-like drainage
    * Your pain medicines are not working
    * It is hard to breathe
    * Cough that does not go away
    * Cannot drink or eat
    * Develop a skin rash and feel ill 

## Alternative Names

Splenectomy - adult - discharge; Spleen removal - adult - discharge

## References

Poulose BK, Holzman MD. The spleen. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 56.

## Read More

    * Spleen removal

## Patient Instructions

    * Getting out of bed after surgery
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Spleen Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

