Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000277.htm    
                                Description: Your child had surgery to remove the spleen. Now that your child is going home, follow the surgeon    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spleen removal - child - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000277.htm

# Spleen removal - child - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had surgery to remove the spleen. Now that your child is going
home, follow the surgeon's instructions on how to care for your child at home.
Use the information below as a reminder.

## When Your Child Was in the Hospital

Your child's spleen was removed after your child was given general anesthesia
(asleep and pain-free).

    * If your child had open surgery, the surgeon made an incision (cut) in your child's belly.
    * If your child had laparoscopic surgery, the surgeon made 3 to 4 small cuts in your child's belly. 

## What to Expect at Home

Most children recover quickly after spleen removal. Recovery from laparoscopic
surgery is usually faster than recovery from open surgery.

Your child may have some of these symptoms. All of them should slowly go away:

    * Pain around the incisions for a few days.
    * Sore throat from the breathing tube. Sucking on ice chips or gargling (if your child is old enough to do these things) can help soothe the throat.
    * Bruising, skin redness, or pain around the cut, or cuts.
    * Problems taking deep breaths. 

If your child's spleen was removed for a blood disorder or lymphoma, your
child may need more treatment depending on the disorder.

## Activity

When you lift your baby, support both the baby's head and bottom for the first
4 to 6 weeks after surgery.

Toddlers and older children will often stop any activity if they get tired. DO
NOT press them to do more if they seem tired.

Your health care provider will tell you when it is OK for your child to return
to school or daycare. This may be as soon as 1 to 2 weeks after surgery.

Your child's activity restrictions will depend on:

    * The type of surgery (open or laparoscopic)
    * Your child's age
    * The reason for the operation 

Ask your doctor about specific activity instructions and limitations.

In general, walking and climbing stairs is OK.

You can give your child acetaminophen (Tylenol) for pain. The doctor may also
prescribe other pain medicines to use at home if your child needs them.

## Wound Care

Your doctor will tell you when to remove your child's dressings. Care for the
incisions as instructed. Keep the incision area clean and dry. Only wash it if
instructed by your doctor.

You may remove the incision dressings (bandages) to give your child a shower.
If strips of tape or surgical glue were used to close the incision:

    * Cover the incision with plastic wrap before showering for the first week.
    * DO NOT try to wash off the tape or glue. They will fall off in about a week. 

Your child should not soak in a bathtub or hot tub or go swimming until your
doctor says it is OK.

## Preventing Infections

Most people live a normal active life without a spleen, but there is always a
risk of getting an infection. This is because the spleen is part of the body's
immune system, helping fight certain infections.

Your child will be more likely to get infections without a spleen:

    * Risk of infection is highest in the first 2 years after surgery, or until your child is 5 or 6 years old.
    * Always tell your child's doctor if your child has a fever, sore throat, headache, belly pain, or diarrhea, or an injury that breaks the skin. Most of the time, problems like these will not be serious. But, sometimes they can lead to major infections. 

For the first week after surgery, check your child's temperature every day.

Ask your child's doctor if your child should have (or already had) these
vaccines:

    * Pneumonia
    * Meningococcal
    * Haemophilus
    * Flu shot (every year) 

Your child may need to take antibiotics every day for a while. Tell your
child's doctor if the medicine is causing your child any problems. DO NOT stop
giving antibiotics before checking with your child's doctor.

These things will help prevent infections in your child:

    * Teach your child to wash his or her hands often with soap and water. Family members should do the same.
    * Get your child treated for any bites, especially dog bites, right away.
    * Let your child's doctor know if your child will be traveling out of the country. Your child may need to carry extra antibiotics, take precautions against malaria, and make sure immunizations are up to date.
    * Tell all of your child's health care providers (dentist, doctors, nurses, or nurse practitioners) that your child does not have a spleen.
    * Ask your child's provider about a special bracelet for your child to wear that says your child does not have a spleen. 

## Other Care

After surgery, most babies and infants (younger than 12 to 15 months) can take
as much formula or breast milk as they want. Ask your child's doctor first if
this is right for your baby. Your child's provider may tell you how to add
extra calories to formula.

Give toddlers and older children regular, healthy foods. The provider will
tell you about any changes you should make.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your child's temperature is 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher.
    * The surgical wounds are bleeding, are red or warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage.
    * Your child has pain that is not helped by pain medicines.
    * It is hard for your child to breathe.
    * Your child has a cough that does not go away.
    * Your child cannot drink or eat.
    * Your child is not as energetic as usual, is not eating, and looks ill. 

## Alternative Names

Splenectomy - child - discharge; Spleen removal - child - discharge

## References

Brandow AM, Camitta BM. Hyposplenism, splenic trauma, and splenectomy. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 487.

Rescorla FJ. Splenic conditions. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP, Ostlie DJ, eds.
_Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap
47.

## Read More

    * Spleen removal

## Patient Instructions

    * Eating extra calories when sick - children
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 1/15/2019

Updated by: Robert A. Cowles, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery (Pediatrics),
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Spleen Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

