Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002944.htm    
                                Description: Spleen removal is surgery to remove a diseased or damaged spleen. This surgery is called splenectomy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spleen removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002944.htm

# Spleen removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spleen removal is surgery to remove a diseased or damaged spleen. This surgery
is called splenectomy.

The spleen is in the upper part of the belly, on the left side underneath the
ribcage. The spleen helps the body fight germs and infections. It also helps
filter the blood.

## Description

The spleen is removed while you are under general anesthesia (asleep and pain-
free). The surgeon may do either an open splenectomy or a laparoscopic
splenectomy.

During open spleen removal:

    * The surgeon makes a cut (incision) in the middle of the belly or on the left side of the belly just below the ribs.
    * The spleen is located and removed.
    * If you are also being treated for cancer, lymph nodes in the belly are examined. They may also be removed.
    * The incision is closed using stitches or staples. 

During laparoscopic spleen removal:

    * The surgeon makes 3 or 4 small cuts in the belly.
    * The surgeon inserts an instrument called a laparoscope through one of the cuts. The scope has a tiny camera and light on the end, which allows the surgeon to see inside the belly. Other instruments are inserted through the other cuts.
    * A harmless gas is pumped into the belly to expand it. This gives the surgeon room to work.
    * The surgeon uses the scope and other instruments to remove the spleen.
    * The scope and other instruments are removed. The incisions are closed using stitches or staples. 

With laparoscopic surgery, recovery is often faster and less painful than with
open surgery. Talk to your surgeon about which type of surgery is right for
you or your child.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Conditions that may require spleen removal include:

    * Abscess or cyst in the spleen.
    * Blood clot (thrombosis) in the blood vessels of the spleen.
    * Cirrhosis of the liver.
    * Diseases or disorders of blood cells, such as idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP), hereditary spherocytosis, thalassemia, hemolytic anemia, and hereditary elliptocytosis. These are all rare conditions.
    * HypersplenismÂ (overactive spleen).
    * Cancer of the lymph system such asÂ Hodgkin disease.
    * Leukemia.
    * Other tumors or cancers that affect the spleen.
    * Sickle cell anemia.
    * Splenic artery aneurysm (rare).
    * Trauma to the spleen. 

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks for this surgery include:

    * Blood clot in the portal vein (an important vein that carries blood to the liver)
    * Collapsed lung
    * Hernia at the surgical cut site
    * Increased risk for infection after splenectomy (children are at higher risk than adults for infection)
    * Injury to nearby organs, such as the pancreas, stomach, and colon
    * Pus collection under the diaphragm 

Risks are the same for both open and laparoscopic spleen removal.

## Before the Procedure

You or your child will have many visits with health care providers and several
tests before surgery. You may have:

    * A complete physical exam
    * Immunizations, such as the pneumococcal, meningococcal, _Haemophilus influenzae_ , and flu vaccines
    * Screening blood tests, special imaging tests, and other tests to make sure you are healthy enough to have surgery
    * Transfusions to receive extra red blood cells and platelets, if you need them 

If you smoke, you should try to stop. Smoking increases your risk for problems
such as slow healing. Ask your provider for help quitting.

Tell the provider:

    * If you are, or might be pregnant.
    * What medicines, vitamins, and other supplements you or your child is taking, even ones that were bought without a prescription.

During the week before surgery:

    * You or your child may need to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), vitamin E, and warfarin (Coumadin).
    * Ask the surgeon which drugs you or your child should still take on the day of surgery.

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when you or your child should stop eating or drinking.
    * Take the drugs the surgeon told you or your child to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

You or your child will spend less than a week in the hospital. The hospital
stay may be only 1 or 2 days after a laparoscopic splenectomy. Healing will
likely take 4 to 6 weeks.

After going home, follow instructions on taking care of yourself or your
child.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome of this surgery depends on what disease or injuries you or your
child has. People who do not have other severe injuries or medical problems
often recover after this surgery.

After the spleen is removed, a person is more likely to develop infections.
Talk with provider about getting needed vaccinations, particularly the yearly
flu vaccine. Children may need to take antibiotics to prevent infections. Most
adults do not need antibiotics long-term.

## Alternative Names

Splenectomy; Laparoscopic splenectomy; Spleen removal - laparoscopic

## Patient Instructions

    * Laparoscopic spleen removal in adults - discharge
    * Open spleen removal in adults - discharge
    * Spleen removal - child - discharge
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Red blood cells, target cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1497t.jpg)Red blood cells, target cells
    * ![Spleen removal - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7173t.jpg)Spleen removal - series

## References

Brandow AM, Camitta BM. Hyposplenism, splenic trauma, and splenectomy. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 514.

Mier F, Hunter JG. Laparoscopic splenectomy. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1505-1509.

Poulose BK, Holzman MD. The spleen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of
Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 56.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedades del
bazo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpleenDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spleen Diseases
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

