Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003116.htm    
                                Description: Painful swallowing is any pain or discomfort while swallowing. You may feel it high in the neck or lower down behind the breastbone. Most often, the pain feels like a strong sensation of squeezing or burning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Painful swallowing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003116.htm

# Painful swallowing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Painful swallowing is any pain or discomfort while swallowing. You may feel it
high in the neck or lower down behind the breastbone. Most often, the pain
feels like a strong sensation of squeezing or burning. Painful swallowing may
be a symptom of a serious disorder.

## Considerations

Swallowing involves many nerves and muscles in the mouth, throat area, and
food pipe (esophagus). Part of swallowing is voluntary. This means you are
aware of controlling the action. However, much of swallowing is involuntary.

![Swallowing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200089t.gif)Watch this
video about:Swallowing

Problems at any point in the swallowing process (including chewing, moving
food to the back of the mouth, or moving it to the stomach) can result in
painful swallowing.

Swallowing problems can cause symptoms such as:

    * Chest pain
    * Feeling of food stuck in the throat
    * Heaviness or pressure in the neck or upper chest while eating 

## Causes

Swallowing problems may be due to infections, such as:

    * Cytomegalovirus
    * Gum disease (gingivitis)
    * Herpes simplex virus
    * Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
    * Pharyngitis (sore throat)
    * Thrush

Swallowing problems may be due to a problem with the esophagus, such as:

    * Achalasia
    * Esophageal spasms
    * Gastroesophageal reflux disease
    * Inflammation of the esophagus
    * Nutcracker esophagus
    * Ulcer in the esophagus, especially due to the antibiotic doxycycline, aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, naproxyn

Other causes of swallowing problems include:

    * Mouth or throat ulcers
    * Something stuck in the throat (for example, fish or chicken bones)
    * Tooth infection or abscess

## Home Care

Some tips that may help you to ease swallowing pain at home include:

    * Eat slowly and chew your food well.
    * Eat pureed foods or liquids if solid foods are hard to swallow.
    * Avoid very cold or very hot foods if they make your symptoms worse.

If someone is choking, immediately perform the Heimlich maneuver.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have painful swallowing and:

    * Blood in your stools or your stools appear black or tarry
    * Shortness of breath or lightheadedness
    * Weight loss 

Tell your provider about any other symptoms that occur with the painful
swallowing, including:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Chills
    * Cough
    * Fever
    * Heartburn
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Sour taste in the mouth
    * Wheezing 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask about your medical history and
symptoms, including:

    * Do you have pain when swallowing solids, liquids, or both?
    * Is the pain constant or does it come and go?
    * Is the pain getting worse?
    * Do you have difficulty swallowing?
    * Do you have a sore throat?
    * Does it feel like there is a lump in your throat?
    * Have you inhaled or swallowed any irritating substances?
    * What other symptoms do you have?
    * What other health problems do you have?
    * What medicines do you take? 

The following tests may be done:

    * Endoscopy with biopsy
    * Barium swallow and upper GI series
    * Chest x-ray
    * Esophageal pH monitoring (measures acid in the esophagus)
    * Esophageal manometry (measures pressure in the esophagus)
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
    * HIV testing
    * Neck x-ray
    * Throat culture 

## Alternative Names

Swallowing - pain or burning; Odynophagia; Burning feeling when swallowing

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy

## References

Devault KR. Symptoms of esophageal disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 13.

Nussenbaum B, Bradford CR. Pharyngitis in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Pandolfino JE, Kahrilas PJ. Esophageal neuromuscular function and motility
disorders. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

Wilcox CM. Gastrointestinal consequences of infection with human
immunodeficiency virus. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 7/11/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Problemas para
tragar](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SwallowingDisorders_thumb.jpg)Swallowing
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

