Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007543.htm    
                                Description: Difficulty with swallowing is the feeling that food or liquid is stuck in the throat or at any point before the food enters the stomach. This problem is also called dysphagia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swallowing difficulty

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007543.htm

# Swallowing difficulty

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Difficulty with swallowing is the feeling that food or liquid is stuck in the
throat or at any point before the food enters the stomach. This problem is
also called dysphagia.

## Causes

The process of swallowing involves several steps. These include:

    * Chewing food
    * Moving it into the back of the mouth
    * Moving it down the esophagus (food pipe) 

There are many nerves that help the muscles of the mouth, throat, and
esophagus work together. Much of swallowing occurs without you being aware of
what you are doing.

Swallowing is a complex act. Many nerves work in a fine balance to control how
the muscles of the mouth, throat, and esophagus work together.

A brain or nerve disorder can alter this fine balance in the muscles of the
mouth and throat.

    * Damage to the brain may be caused by multiple sclerosis, Parkinson disease, or stroke.
    * Nerve damage may be due to spinal cord injuries, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS or Lou Gehrig disease), or myasthenia gravis. 

Stress or anxiety may cause some people to feel tightness in the throat or
feel as if something is stuck in the throat. This sensation is called globus
sensation and is unrelated to eating. However, there may be some underlying
cause.

Problems that involve the esophagus often cause swallowing problems. These may
include:

    * An abnormal ring of tissue that forms where the esophagus and stomach meet (called Schatzki ring).
    * Abnormal spasms of the esophagus muscles.
    * Cancer of the esophagus.
    * Failure of the muscle bundle at the bottom of the esophagus to relax (Achalasia).
    * Scarring that narrows the esophagus. This may be due to radiation, chemicals, medicines, chronic swelling, ulcers, infection, or esophageal reflux.
    * Something stuck in the esophagus, such as a piece of food.
    * Scleroderma, a disorder in which the immune system mistakenly attacks the esophagus.
    * Tumors in the chest that press on the esophagus.
    * Plummer-Vinson syndrome, a rare disease in which webs of mucosal membrane grows across the opening of the esophagus. 

## Symptoms

Chest pain, the feeling of food stuck in the throat, or heaviness or pressure
in the neck or upper or lower chest may be present.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Cough or wheezing that becomes worse.
    * Coughing up food that has not been digested.
    * Heartburn.
    * Nausea.
    * Sour taste in the mouth.
    * Difficulty swallowing only solids (may indicate a tumor or stricture) suggests a physical blockage such as a stricture or a tumor.
    * Difficulty swallowing liquids but not solids (may indicate nerve damage or spasm of the esophagus).

You may have problems swallowing with any eating or drinking, or only with
certain types of foods or liquids. Early signs of swallowing problems may
include difficulty when eating:

    * Very hot or cold foods
    * Dry crackers or bread
    * Meat or chicken

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will order tests to look for:

    * Something that is blocking or narrowing the esophagus
    * Problems with the muscles
    * Changes in the lining of the esophagus 

A test called upper endoscopy (EGD) is often done.

    * An endoscope is a flexible tube with a light on the end. It is inserted through the mouth and down through the esophagus to the stomach.
    * You will be given a sedative and will feel no pain. 

Other tests may include:

    * Barium swallow and other swallowing tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * Esophageal pH monitoring (measures acid in the esophagus)
    * Esophageal manometry (measures pressure in the esophagus)
    * Neck x-ray 

You may also need to have blood tests to look for disorders that could cause
swallowing problems.

## Treatment

The treatment for your swallowing problem depends on the cause.

It is important to learn how to eat and drink safely. Incorrect swallowing may
lead to choking or breathing food or liquid into your main airway. This can
lead to pneumonia.

To manage swallowing problems at home:

    * Your provider may suggest changes to your diet. You may also get a special liquid diet to help you stay healthy.
    * You may need to learn new chewing and swallowing techniques. 
    * Your provider may tell you to use substances to thicken water and other liquids so that you do not aspirate them into your lungs.

Medicines that may be used depend on the cause, and may include:

    * Certain medicines that relax the muscles in the esophagus. These include nitrates, which is a type of medicine used to treat blood pressure, and dicyclomine.
    * Injection of botulinum toxin.
    * Medicines to treat heartburn due to gastroesophageal reflux (GERD).
    * Medicines to treat an anxiety disorder, if present. 

Procedures and surgeries that may be used include:

    * Upper endoscopy: The provider can dilate or widen a narrowed area of your esophagus using this procedure. For some people, this needs to be done again, and sometimes more than once.
    * Radiation or surgery: These treatments may be used if cancer is causing the swallowing problem. Achalasia or spasms of the esophagus may also respond to surgery or injections of botulinum toxin.

You may need a feeding tube if:

    * Your symptoms are severe and you are unable to eat and drink enough.
    * You have problems due to choking or pneumonia.

A feeding tube is inserted directly into the stomach through the abdominal
wall (G-tube).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if swallowing problems do not improve after a few days, or
they come and go.

Call your provider right away if:

    * You have a fever or shortness of breath.
    * You are losing weight.
    * Your swallowing problems are getting worse.
    * You cough or vomit up blood.
    * You have asthma that is becoming worse.
    * You feel as if you are choking during or after eating or drinking. 

## Alternative Names

Dysphagia; Impaired swallowing; Choking - food; Globus sensation

## Images

    * ![Esophagus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8871t.jpg)Esophagus

## References

Brown DJ, Lefton-Greif MA, Ishman SL. Aspiration and swallowing disorders. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 209.

Munter DW. Esophageal foreign bodies. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW,
eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 39.

Pandolfino JE, Kahrilas PJ. Esophageal neuromuscular function and motility
disorders. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

## Review Date 7/13/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Problemas para
tragar](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SwallowingDisorders_thumb.jpg)Swallowing
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

