Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000686.htm    
                                Description: Sciatica refers to pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the leg. It is caused by injury to or pressure on the sciatic nerve. Sciatica is a symptom of a medical problem. It is not a medical condition    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sciatica

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000686.htm

# Sciatica

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sciatica refers to pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the leg. It is
caused by injury to or pressure on the sciatic nerve. Sciatica is a symptom of
a medical problem. It is not a medical condition on its own.

## Causes

Sciatica occurs when there is pressure or damage to the sciatic nerve. This
nerve starts in the lower back and runs down the back of each leg. This nerve
controls the muscles of the back of the knee and lower leg. It also provides
sensation to the back of the thigh, the outer and back part of the lower leg,
and the sole of the foot.

Common causes of sciatica include:

    * Slipped herniated disk
    * Spinal stenosis
    * Piriformis syndrome (a pain disorder involving the narrow muscle in the buttocks)
    * Pelvic injury or fracture
    * Tumors

Men between 30 and 50 years of age are more likely to have sciatica.

## Symptoms

Sciatica pain can vary widely. It may feel like a mild tingling, dull ache, or
burning sensation. In some cases, the pain is severe enough to make a person
unable to move.

The pain most often occurs on one side. Some people have sharp pain in one
part of the leg or hip and numbness in other parts. The pain or numbness may
also be felt on the back of the calf or on the sole of the foot. The affected
leg may feel weak. Sometimes, your foot gets caught on the ground when
walking.

![Sciatic nerve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19503.jpg)

The pain may start slowly. It may get worse:

    * After standing or sitting
    * During certain times of the day, such as at night
    * When sneezing, coughing, or laughing
    * When bending backward or walking more than a few yards or meters, especially if caused by spinal stenosis
    * When straining or holding your breath, such as during a bowel movement 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

    * Weakness when bending the knee
    * Difficulty bending the foot inward or down
    * Difficulty walking on your toes
    * Difficulty bending forward or backward
    * Abnormal or weak reflexes
    * Loss of sensation or numbness
    * Pain when lifting the leg straight up when you're lying on the exam table

Tests are often not needed unless pain is severe or long-lasting. If tests are
ordered, they may include:

    * Blood tests
    * X-ray, MRI, or other imaging tests

## Treatment

As sciatica is a symptom of another medical condition, the underlying cause
should be identified and treated.

In some cases, no treatment is required and recovery occurs on its own.

Conservative (non-surgical) treatment is best in many cases. Your provider may
recommend the following steps to calm your symptoms and reduce inflammation:

    * Apply heat or ice to the painful area. Try ice for the first 48 to 72 hours, then use heat.
    * Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) or acetaminophen (Tylenol).

Measures to take care of your back at home may include:

    * Bed rest is not recommended. 
    * Reduce your activity for the first couple of days. Then, slowly start your usual activities. 
    * DO NOT do heavy lifting or twisting of your back for the first 6 weeks after the pain begins. 
    * Start exercising again after 2 to 3 weeks. Include exercises to strengthen your abdominal (core) muscles and improve flexibility of your spine.

Your provider may also suggest physical therapy. Additional treatments depend
on the condition that is causing the sciatica.

If these measures do not help, your provider may recommend injections of
certain medicines to reduce swelling around the nerve. Other medicines may be
prescribed to help reduce the stabbing pains due to nerve irritation.

Nerve pain is very difficult to treat. If you have ongoing problems with pain,
you may want to see a neurologist or a pain specialist to ensure that you have
access to the widest range of treatment options.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Often, sciatica gets better on its own. But it is common for it to return.

## Possible Complications

More serious complications depend on the cause of sciatica, such as slipped
disk or spinal stenosis. Sciatica can lead to permanent numbness or weakness
of your leg.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have:

    * Unexplained fever with back pain
    * Back pain after a severe blow or fall
    * Redness or swelling on the back or spine
    * Pain traveling down your legs below the knee
    * Weakness or numbness in your buttocks, thigh, leg, or pelvis
    * Burning with urination or blood in your urine
    * Pain that is worse when you lie down, or awakens you at night
    * Severe pain and you cannot get comfortable
    * Loss of control of urine or stool (incontinence)

Also call if:

    * You have been losing weight unintentionally (not on purpose)
    * You use steroids or intravenous drugs
    * You have had back pain before, but this episode is different and feels worse
    * This episode of back pain has lasted longer than 4 weeks

## Prevention

Prevention varies, depending on the cause of the nerve damage. Avoid prolonged
sitting or lying with pressure on the buttocks.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - sciatic nerve; Sciatic nerve dysfunction; Low back pain -
sciatica; LBP - sciatica; Lumbar radiculopathy - sciatica

## Patient Instructions

    * Spine surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Sciatic nerve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19503t.jpg)Sciatic nerve
    * ![Cauda equina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19504t.jpg)Cauda equina
    * ![Sciatic nerve damage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9765t.jpg)Sciatic nerve damage

## References

Marques DR, Carroll WE. Neurology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 41.

Ropper AH, Zafonte RD. Sciatica. _N Engl J Med_. 2015;372(13):1240-1248. PMID:
25806916 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25806916.

Yavin D, Hurlbert RJ. Nonsurgical and postsurgical management of low back
pain. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 281.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sciatica](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sciatica2_thumb.jpg)Sciatica _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

