Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000432.htm    
                                Description: Necrotizing vasculitis is a group of disorders that involve inflammation of the blood vessel walls. The size of the affected blood vessels helps to determine the names of these conditions and how the disorder    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Necrotizing vasculitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000432.htm

# Necrotizing vasculitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Necrotizing vasculitis is a group of disorders that involve inflammation of
the blood vessel walls. The size of the affected blood vessels helps to
determine the names of these conditions and how the disorder causes disease.

## Causes

Necrotizing vasculitis may be the primary condition such as polyarteritis
nodosa or granulomatosis with polyangiitis (formerly called Wegener
granulomatosis). In other cases, the vasculitis may occur as part of another
disorder, such as systemic lupus erythematosus or hepatitis C.

The cause of the inflammation is unknown. It is likely related to autoimmune
factors. The wall of the blood vessel may scar and thicken or die (become
necrotic). The blood vessel may close, interrupting blood flow to the tissues
it supplies. The lack of blood flow will cause the tissues to die. Sometimes
the blood vessel may break and bleed (rupture).

Necrotizing vasculitis may affect blood vessels in any part of the body.
Therefore, it can cause problems in the skin, brain, lungs, intestines,
kidney, brain, joints or any other organ.

## Symptoms

Fever, chills, fatigue, arthritis, or weight loss may be the only symptoms at
first. However, symptoms may be in almost any part of the body.

Skin:

    * Red or purple colored bumps on the legs, hands or other parts of the body
    * Bluish color to the fingers and toes
    * Signs of tissue death due to lack of oxygen such as pain, redness, and ulcers that do not heal

Muscles and joints:

    * Joint pain
    * Leg pain
    * Muscle weakness

Brain and nervous system:

    * Pain, numbness, tingling in an arm, leg, or other body area
    * Weakness of an arm, leg, or other body area
    * Pupils that are different sizes
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Speech impairment
    * Movement difficulty

Lungs and respiratory tract:

    * Cough
    * Shortness of breath
    * Sinus congestion and pain
    * Coughing up blood or bleeding from the nose

Other symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood in the urine or stools
    * Hoarseness or changing voice
    * Chest pain from damage of the arteries that supply the heart (coronary arteries)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a complete physical exam. A nervous system
(neurological) exam may show signs of nerve damage.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count, comprehensive chemistry panel, and urinalysis
    * Chest x-ray
    * C-reactive protein test
    * Sedimentation rate
    * Hepatitis blood test
    * Blood test for antibodies against neutrophils (ANCA antibodies) or nuclear antigens (ANA)
    * Blood test for cryoglobulins
    * Blood test for complement levels  

    * Imaging studies such as angiogram, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
    * BiopsyÂ of the skin, muscle, organ tissue, orÂ nerve

## Treatment

Corticosteroids are given in most cases. The dose will depend on how bad the
condition is.

Other drugs that suppress the immune system may reduce inflammation of the
blood vessels. These include azathioprine, methotrexate, and mycophenolate.
These medicines are often used along with corticosteroids. This combination
makes it possible to control the disease with a lower dose of corticosteroids.

For severe disease, cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) has been used for many years.
However, rituximab (Rituxan) is equally effective and is less toxic.

Recently, tocilizumab (Actemra) was shown to be effective for giant cell
arteritis so the dose corticosteroids could be reduced.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Necrotizing vasculitis can be serious and life-threatening disease. The
outcome depends on the location of the vasculitis and the severity of tissue
damage. Complications may occur from the disease and from the medicines. Most
forms of necrotizing vasculitis require long-term follow-up and treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Permanent damage to the structure or function of the affected area
    * Secondary infections of necrotic tissues 
    * Side effects from medicines used

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of necrotizing vasculitis.

Emergency symptoms include:

    * Problems in more than one part of the body such as stroke, arthritis, severe skin rash, abdominal pain or coughing up blood
    * Changes in pupil size
    * Loss of function of an arm, leg, or other body part
    * Speech problems
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Weakness
    * Severe abdominal pain  

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this disorder.

## Images

    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Jennette JC, Falk RJ. Renal and systemic vasculitis. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 25.

Jennette JC, Weimer ET, Kidd J. Vasculitis. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

Rhee RL, Hogan SL, Poulton CJ, et al. Trends in long-term outcomes among
patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis with
renal disease. _Arthritis Rheumatol_. 2016;68(7):1711-1720. PMID: 26814428
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26814428.

Specks U, Merkel PA, Seo P, et al. Efficacy of remission-induction regimens
for ANCA-associated vasculitis. _N Engl J Med_. 2013;369(5):417-427. PMID:
23902481 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23902481.

Stone JH, Klearman M, Collinson N. Trial of tocilizumab in giant-cell
arteritis. _N Engl J Med_. 2017;377(15):1494-1495. PMID: 29020600
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29020600.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![Scleroderma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scleroderma_thumb.jpg)Scleroderma
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

