Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001003.htm    
                                Description: The sclera is the white outer wall of the eye. Scleritis is present when this area becomes swollen or inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scleritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001003.htm

# Scleritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The sclera is the white outer wall of the eye. Scleritis is present when this
area becomes swollen or inflamed.

## Causes

Scleritis is often linked to autoimmune diseases. These diseases occur when
the body's immune system attacks and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake.
Rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus are examples of
autoimmune diseases. Sometimes the cause is unknown.

Scleritis occurs most often in people between the ages of 30 and 60. It is
rare in children.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of scleritis include:

    * Blurred vision
    * Eye pain and tenderness -- severe
    * Red patches on the normally white part of the eye
    * Sensitivity to light \-- very painful
    * Tearing of the eye

A rare form of this disease causes no eye pain or redness.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform the following tests:

    * Eye exam
    * Physical exam and blood tests to look for conditions that may be causing the problem 

It is important for your provider to determine if your symptoms are due to
scleritis. The same symptoms can also be a less severe form of inflammation,
such as episcleritis.

## Treatment

Treatments for scleritis may include:

    * Corticosteroid eye drops to help reduce the inflammation
    * Corticosteroid pills
    * Newer, nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in some cases
    * Certain anticancer drugs (immune-suppressants) for severe cases

If scleritis is caused by an underlying disease, treatment of that disease may
be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the condition goes away with treatment. But it may come back.

The disorder causing scleritis may be serious. However, it may not be
discovered the first time you have the problem. The outcome will depend on the
specific disorder.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Return of scleritis
    * Side effects of long-term corticosteroid therapy
    * Perforation of the eyeball, leading to vision loss if the condition is left untreated

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or ophthalmologist if you have symptoms of scleritis.

## Prevention

Most cases cannot be prevented.

People with autoimmune diseases, may need to have regular check-ups with an
ophthalmologist familiar with the condition.

## Alternative Names

Inflammation - sclera

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Denniston AK, Rhodes B, Gayed M, Carruthers D, Gordon C, Murray PI. Rheumatic
disease. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P,
eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 83.

Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzzi LA. Inflammation. In: Freund KB,
Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA, eds. _The Retinal Atlas_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 4.

Patel SS, Goldstein DA. Episcleritis and scleritis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.11.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

