Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000435.htm    
                                Description: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease. In this disease, the immune system of the body mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. It can affect the skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Systemic lupus erythematosus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000435.htm

# Systemic lupus erythematosus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease. In this disease,
the immune system of the body mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. It can affect
the skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs.

## Causes

The cause of SLE is not clearly known. It may be linked to the following
factors:

    * Genetic
    * Environmental
    * Hormonal
    * Certain medicines 

SLE is more common in women than men. It may occur at any age. However, it
appears most often in people between the ages of 15 and 44. The disease
affects African Americans and Asians more than people from other races.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary from person to person, and may come and go. Everyone with SLE
has joint pain and swelling at some time. Some develop arthritis. SLE often
affects the joints of the fingers, hands, wrists, and knees.

Other common symptoms include:

    * Chest pain when taking a deep breath.
    * Fatigue.
    * Fever with no other cause.
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise).
    * Hair loss.
    * Weight loss.
    * Mouth sores.
    * Sensitivity to sunlight.
    * Skin rash: A "butterfly" rash develops in about half the people with SLE. The rash is mostly seen over the cheeks and bridge of the nose. It can be widespread. It gets worse in sunlight.
    * Swollen lymph nodes. 

Other symptoms depend on which part of the body is affected:

    * Brain and nervous system: Headaches, numbness, tingling, seizures, vision problems, and personality changes
    * Digestive tract: Abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting
    * Heart: Valve problems, inflammation of heart muscle
    * Lung: Buildup of fluid in the pleural space, difficulty breathing
    * Skin: Patchy skin color and fingers that change color when cold (Raynaud phenomenon)
    * Kidney: Swelling in the legs 

Some people have only skin symptoms. This is called discoid lupus.

![Systemic lupus
erythematosus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17134.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

To be diagnosed with lupus, you must have 4 out of 11 common signs of the
disease. Nearly all people with lupus have a positive test for antinuclear
antibody (ANA). However, having a positive ANA alone does not mean you have
lupus.

The health care provider will do a complete physical exam. You may have a
rash, arthritis, or edema in the ankles. There may be an abnormal sound called
a heart friction rub or pleural friction rub. Your provider will also do a
nervous system exam.

Tests used to diagnose SLE may include:

    * Antinuclear antibody (ANA)
    * CBC with differential
    * Chest x-ray
    * Serum creatinine
    * Urinalysis

You may also have other tests to learn more about your condition. Some of
these are:

    * Antinuclear antibody (ANA) panel
    * Complement components (C3 and C4)
    * Antibodies to double-stranded DNA
    * Coombs test -- direct
    * Cryoglobulins
    * ESR and CRP
    * Kidney function blood tests
    * Liver function blood tests
    * Rheumatoid factor
    * Antiphospholipid antibodies and lupus anticoagulant test
    * Kidney biopsy
    * Imaging tests of the heart, brain, lungs, joints, muscles or intestines 

## Treatment

There is no cure for SLE. The goal of treatment is to control symptoms. Severe
symptoms that involve the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs often need
treatment from specialists. Each person with SLE needs evaluation regarding:

    * How active the disease is
    * What part of the body is affected
    * What form of treatment is needed 

Mild forms of the disease may be treated with:

    * NSAIDs for joint symptoms and pleurisy. Talk to your provider before taking these medicines.
    * Low doses of corticosteroids, such as prednisone, for skin and arthritis symptoms.
    * Corticosteroid creams for skin rashes.
    * Hydroxychloroquine, a medicine also used to treat malaria.
    * Belimumab, a biologic medicine, may be helpful in some people. 

Treatments for more severe SLE may include:

    * High-dose corticosteroids.
    * Immunosuppressive medicines (these medicines suppress the immune system). These medicines are used if you do not get better with corticosteroids, or if your symptoms get worse when you stop taking them.
    * Most commonly used medicines include mycophenolate, azathioprine and cyclophosphamide. Because of its toxicity, cyclophosphamide is limited to a short course of 3 to 6 months. Rituximab (Rituxan) is used in some cases as well.
    * Blood thinners, such as Coumadin, for clotting disorders. 

If you have SLE, it is also important to:

    * Wear protective clothing, sunglasses, and sunscreen when in the sun.
    * Get preventive heart care.
    * Stay up-to-date with immunizations.
    * Have tests to screen for thinning of the bones (osteoporosis).
    * Avoid tobacco and drink minimal amounts of alcohol. 

## Support Groups

Counseling and support groups may help with the emotional issues involved with
the disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome for people with SLE has improved in recent years. Many people with
SLE have mild symptoms. How well you do depends on how severe the disease is.
Most people with SLE will require medicines for a long time. Nearly all will
require hydroxychloroquine indefinitely.

The disease tends to be more active:

    * During the first years after diagnosis
    * In people under age 40 

Many women with SLE can get pregnant and deliver a healthy baby. A good
outcome is more likely for women who receive proper treatment and do not have
serious heart or kidney problems. However, the presence of certain SLE
antibodies or antiphospholipid antibodies raises the risk of miscarriage.

## Possible Complications

LUPUS NEPHRITIS

Some people with SLE have abnormal immune deposits in the kidney cells. This
leads to a condition called lupus nephritis. People with this problem may
develop kidney failure. They may need dialysis or a kidney transplant.  

A kidney biopsy is done to detect the extent of damage to the kidney and to
help guide treatment. If active nephritis is present, treatment with
immunosuppressive medicines including high doses of corticosteroids along with
either cyclophosphamide or mycophenolate are needed.

OTHER PARTS OF THE BODY

SLE can cause damage in many different parts of the body, including:

    * Blood clots in arteries of veins of the legs, lungs, brain, or intestines
    * Destruction of red blood cells or anemia of long-term (chronic) disease
    * Fluid around the heart (pericarditis), or inflammation of the heart (myocarditis or endocarditis)
    * Fluid around the lungs and damage to lung tissue
    * Pregnancy problems, including miscarriage
    * Stroke
    * Bowel damage with abdominal pain and obstruction
    * Inflammation in the intestines
    * Severely low blood platelet count (platelets are needed to stop any bleeding)
    * Inflammation of the blood vessels 

SLE AND PREGNANCY

Both SLE and some of the medicines used for SLE can harm an unborn child. Talk
to your provider before you become pregnant. If you become pregnant, find a
provider who is experienced with lupus and pregnancy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of SLE. Also call if you have this
disease and your symptoms get worse or a new symptom occurs.

## Alternative Names

Disseminated lupus erythematosus; SLE; Lupus; Lupus erythematosus; Butterfly
rash - SLE; Discoid lupus

## Images

    * ![Systemic lupus erythematosus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17134t.jpg)Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * ![Lupus, discoid  - view of lesions on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1868t.jpg)Lupus, discoid - view of lesions on the chest
    * ![Lupus - discoid on a child's face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2496t.jpg)Lupus - discoid on a child's face
    * ![Systemic lupus erythematosus rash on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2507t.jpg)Systemic lupus erythematosus rash on the face
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Arntfield RT, Hicks CM. Systemic lupus erythematosus and the vasculitides. In:
Hockberger RS, Walls RM, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018:chap 108.

Crow MK. Etiology and pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus. In:
Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and
Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 79.

Crow MK. Systemic lupus erythematosus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 266.

Hahn BH, McMahon MA, Wilkinson A, et al. American College of Rheumatology
guidelines for screening, treatment, and management of lupus nephritis.
_Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken)_. 2012; 64(6):797-808. PMID: 22556106
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22556106.

van Vollenhoven RF, Mosca M, Bertsias G, et al. Treat-to-target in systemic
lupus erythematosus: recommendations from an international task force. _Ann
Rheum Dis_. 2014;73(6):958-967. PMID: 24739325
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24739325.

## Review Date 1/29/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
Rheumatology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA.
Internal review and update on 03/28/19 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

