Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000481.htm    
                                Description: Lupus nephritis, whichÂ is a kidney disorder, is a complication of systemic lupus erythematosus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lupus nephritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000481.htm

# Lupus nephritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lupus nephritis, whichÂ is a kidney disorder, is a complication of systemic
lupus erythematosus.

## Causes

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, or lupus) is an autoimmune disease. This
means there is a problem with the body's immune system.

Normally, the immune system helps protect the body from infection or harmful
substances. But in people with an autoimmune disease, the immune system cannot
tell the difference between harmful substances and healthy ones. As a result,
the immune system attacks otherwise healthy cells and tissues.

SLE may damage different parts of the kidney. This can lead to disorders such
as:

    * Interstitial nephritis
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Membranous glomerulonephritis
    * Kidney failure

## Symptoms

Symptoms of lupus nephritis include:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Foamy appearanceÂ toÂ urine
    * Swelling (edema) of any area of the body
    * High blood pressure 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. Abnormal sounds may be heard when theÂ provider listens to your
heart and lungs.

Tests that may be done include:

    * ANA titer
    * BUN and creatinine
    * Complement levels
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine protein
    * Kidney biopsy,Â to determine appropriate treatment

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to improve kidney function and to delay kidney
failure.

Medicines may include drugs that suppress the immune system, such as
corticosteroids, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, or azathioprine.

You may need dialysis to control symptoms of kidney failure, sometimes for
only a while. A kidney transplant may be recommended. People with active lupus
should not have a transplant because the condition can occur in the
transplanted kidney.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do, depends on the specific form of lupus nephritis. You may have
flare-ups, and then times when you do not have any symptoms.

Some people with this condition develop long-term (chronic) kidney failure.

Although lupus nephritis may return in a transplanted kidney, it rarely leads
to end-stage kidney disease.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from lupus nephritis include:

    * Acute renal failure
    * Chronic renal failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have blood inÂ your urine or swelling of your body.

If you have lupus nephritis, call your provider if you notice decreased urine
output.

## Prevention

Treating lupus may help prevent or delay onset of lupus nephritis.

## Alternative Names

Nephritis - lupus; Lupus glomerular disease

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Hahn BH, McMahon M, Wilkinson A, et al. American College of Rheumatology
guidelines for screening, case definition, treatment and management of lupus
nephritis. _Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken)_. 2012;64(6):797-808. PMCID: 3437757
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3437757.

Wadhwani S, Jayne D, Rovin BH. Lupus nephritis. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

