Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003544.htm    
                                Description: The serum globulin electrophoresis test measures the levels of proteins called globulins in the fluid part of a blood sample. This fluid is called serum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Serum globulin electrophoresis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003544.htm

# Serum globulin electrophoresis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The serum globulin electrophoresis test measures the levels of proteins called
globulins in the fluid part of a blood sample. This fluid is called serum.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

In the lab, the technician places the blood sample on special paper and
applies an electric current. The proteins move on the paper and form bands
that show the amount of each protein.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow instructions on whether or not you need to fast before this test.

Certain medicines may affect the results of this test. Your health care
provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines. Do not stop
any medicine before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to look at globulin proteins in the blood. Identifying the
types of globulins can help diagnose certain medical problems.

Globulins are roughly divided into three groups: alpha, beta, and gamma
globulins. Gamma globulins include various types of antibodies such as
immunoglobulins (Ig) M, G, and A.

Certain diseases are associated with producing too many immunoglobulins. For
example, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is a cancer of certain white blood
cells. It is linked with producing too many IgM antibodies.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges are:

    * Serum globulin: 2.0 to 3.5 grams per deciliter (g/dL) or 20 to 35 grams per liter (g/L)Â 
    * IgM component: 75 to 300 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or 750 to 3,000 milligrams per liter (mg/L)
    * IgG component: 650 to 1,850 mg/dL or 6.5 to 18.50 g/L
    * IgA component: 90 to 350 mg/dL or 900 to 3,500 mg/L

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased gamma globulin proteins may indicate:

    * Acute infection
    * Blood and bone marrow cancers includingÂ multiple myeloma, and some lymphomas and leukemias
    * Long-term (chronic) inflammatory disease (for example, rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus)
    * WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the
body to the other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins  

    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Quantitative immunoglobulins

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Immunoelectrophoresis - serum and urine. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:673.

Dominiczak MH, Fraser WD. Blood and plasma proteins. In: Baynes JW, Dominiczak
MH, eds. _Medical Biochemistry_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 4.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![Multiple
Myeloma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleMyeloma_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Myeloma _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

