Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003539.htm    
                                Description: Complement C3 is a blood test that measures the activity of a certain protein.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Complement component 3 (C3)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003539.htm

# Complement component 3 (C3)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Complement C3 is a blood test that measures the activity of a certain protein.

This protein is part of the complement system. The complement system is a
group of nearly 60 proteins that are in blood plasma or on the surface of some
cells. The proteins work with your immune system and play a role to protect
the body from infections, and to remove dead cells and foreign material.
Rarely, people may inherit deficiency of some complement proteins. These
people are prone to certain infections or autoimmune disorders.

There are nine major complement proteins. They are labeled C1 through C9. This
article describes the test that measures C3.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood is drawn from a vein. Most often, a vein from the inside of the elbow or
the back of the hand is used.

The procedure is as follows:

    * The site is cleaned with an antiseptic.
    * The health care provider wraps an elastic band around the upper arm to apply pressure to the area and make the vein swell with blood.
    * The provider gently inserts a needle into the vein.
    * The blood collects into an airtight vial or tube attached to the needle. The elastic band is removed from your arm.
    * Once the blood has been collected, the needle is removed. The puncture site is covered to stop any bleeding.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin and make it bleed. The blood collects into a small glass
tube called a pipette, or onto a slide or test strip. A bandage may be placed
over the area if there is any bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
OthersÂ may feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

C3 and C4 are the most commonly measured complement components.

A complement test may be used to monitor people with an autoimmune disorder.
It is done to see if treatment for their condition is working. When the
complement system is turned on during inflammation, levels of complement
proteins may go down. For example, people with active lupus erythematosus may
have lower-than-normal levels of the complement proteins C3 and C4.

Complement activity varies throughout the body. For example, in people with
rheumatoid arthritis, complement activity in the blood may be normal or
higher-than-normal, but much lower-than-normal in the joint fluid.

The test may also be done for the following conditions:

    * Fungal infections
    * Gram negative septicemia
    * Parasitic infections, such as malaria
    * Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH)
    * Shock

## Normal Results

The normal range is 88 to 201 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) (0.88 to 2.01
g/L).

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased complement activity may be seen in:

    * Cancer
    * Ulcerative colitis

Decreased complement activity may be seen in:

    * Bacterial infections (especially Neisseria)
    * Cirrhosis
    * Glomerulonephritis
    * Hepatitis
    * Hereditary angioedema
    * Kidney transplant rejection
    * Lupus nephritis
    * Malnutrition
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Rare inherited complement deficiencies  
  

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Considerations

The complement cascade is a series of reactions that take place in the blood.
The cascade activates the complement proteins. The result is an attack unit
that creates holes in the membrane of bacteria, killing them. C3 attaches to
bacteria and kills them directly.

## Alternative Names

C3

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. C3 complement (beta-1c-globulin) - serum. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:267-268.

Holers VM. Complement and its receptors: new insights into human disease.
_Annu Rev Immunol_. 2014;32:433-459. PMID: 24499275
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24499275.

Massey HD, McPherson RA, Huber SA, Jenny NS. Mediators of inflammation:
complement. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap
47.

Merle NS, Church SE, Fremeaux-Bacchi V, Roumenina LT. Complement system part I
- molecular mechanisms of activation and regulation. _Front Immunol_.
2015;6:262. PMID: 26082779 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26082779.

Merle NS, Noe R, Halbwachs-Mecarelli L, Fremeaux-Bacchi V, Roumenina LT.
Complement system part II: role in immunity. _Front Immunol_. 2015;6:257.
PMID: 26074922 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26074922.

Morgan BP, Harris CL. Complement, a target for therapy in inflammatory and
degenerative diseases. _Nat Rev Drug Discov_. 2015;14(12):857-877. PMID:
26493766 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26493766.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

