Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003535.htm    
                                Description: The antinuclear antibody panel is a blood test that looks at antinuclear antibodies (ANA).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antinuclear antibody panel

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003535.htm

# Antinuclear antibody panel

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The antinuclear antibody panel is a blood test that looks at antinuclear
antibodies (ANA).

ANA are antibodies produced by the immune system that bind to the body's own
tissues. The antinuclear antibody test looks for antibodies that bind to a
part of the cell called the nucleus. The screening test determines whether
such antibodies are present. The test also measures the level, called the
titer, and the pattern, which can be helpful. If the test is positive, a panel
of tests may be done to identify specific antigen targets. This is the ANA
antibody panel.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood is drawn from a vein. Most often, a vein on the inside of the elbow or
the back of the hand is used. The site is cleaned with germ-killing medicine
(antiseptic). The health care provider wraps an elastic band around the upper
arm to apply pressure to the area and make the vein swell with blood.

Next, the provider gently inserts a needle into the vein. The blood collects
into an airtight vial or tube attached to the needle. The elastic band is
removed from your arm.

Once the blood has been collected, the needle is removed, and the puncture
site is covered to stop any bleeding.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin and make it bleed. The blood collects into a small glass
tube called a pipette, or onto a slide or test strip. A bandage may be placed
over the area if there is any bleeding.

Depending on the laboratory, the test may be processed in different ways. One
method requires a technician to examine a blood sample under a microscope
using ultraviolet light. The other uses an automated instrument to record the
results.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed. However, certain drugs, including birth
control pills, procainamide, and thiazide diuretics, affect the accuracy of
this test. Make sure your provider knows about all the medicines you take.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
OthersÂ may feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have signs of an autoimmune disorder,
particularly systemic lupus erythematosus. This test may be done if you have
unexplained symptoms such as arthritis, rashes, or chest pain.

## Normal Results

Some normal people have a low level of ANA. Thus, the presence of a low level
of ANA is not always abnormal.

ANA is reported as a "titer". Low titers are in the range of 1:40 to 1:60. A
positive ANA test is of much more importance if you also have antibodies
against the double-stranded form of DNA.

The presence of ANA does not confirm a diagnosis of systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE). However, a lack of ANA makes that diagnosis much less
likely.

Although ANAÂ are most often identified with SLE, a positive ANA test can also
be a sign of other autoimmune diseases.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

Further tests can be run on blood with a positive ANA test to get more
information.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

To make the diagnosis of SLE, certain clinical features as well as ANA must be
present. In addition, certain specific ANA antibodies help to confirm the
diagnosis.

The presence of ANA in the blood may be due to many other disorders besides
SLE. These include:

AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES

    * Mixed connective tissue disease
    * Drug-induced lupus erythematosus
    * Myositis (inflammatory muscle disease)
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma)
    * Thyroid disease
    * Autoimmune hepatitis
    * Lymphomas

INFECTIONS

    * EB virus
    * Hepatitis C
    * HIV
    * Parvovirus

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another, and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining blood from some people may be more
difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

Your provider will use the results of the ANA panel to help make a diagnosis.
Almost all people with active SLE have a positive ANA. However, a positive ANA
by itself is not enough to make a diagnosis of SLE or any other autoimmune
disease. The ANA tests must be used along with your medical history, physical
exam and other laboratory tests.

The ANA can be positive in relatives of people with SLE who do not have SLE
themselves.

There is a very low chance of developing SLE at some time later in life if the
only finding is a low titer of ANA.

## Alternative Names

ANA; ANA panel; ANA reflexive panel; SLE - ANA; Systemic lupus erythematosus -
ANA

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Alberto von MÃ¼hlen C, Fritzler MJ, Chan EKL. Clinical and laboratory
evaluation of systemic rheumatic diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

American College of Rheumatology website. Antinuclear antibodies (ANA).
www.rheumatology.org/I-Am-A/Patient-Caregiver/Diseases-Conditions/Antinuclear-
Antibodies-ANA. Updated March 2017. Accessed April 04, 2019.

Reeves WH, Zhuang H, Han S. Autoantibodies in systemic lupus erythematosus.
In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman
MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 139.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

