Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003555.htm    
                                Description: Cryoglobulins are antibodies that become solid or gel-like at low temperatures in the laboratory. This article describes the blood test used to check for them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cryoglobulins

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003555.htm

# Cryoglobulins

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cryoglobulins are antibodies that become solid or gel-like at low temperatures
in the laboratory. This article describes the blood test used to check for
them.

In the laboratory, cryoglobulins come out of solution in blood when the blood
sample is cooled below 98.6Â°F (37Â°C). They dissolve again when the sample is
warmed up.

Cryoglobulins come in three main types, but in 90% of cases, the cause is
hepatitis C. The disease in which cryoglobulins are found is called
cryoglobulinemia. Cryoglobulins can cause inflammation in blood vessels,
called vasculitis. They may also cause inflammation in the kidney, nerves,
joints, lungs and skin.

## How the Test is Performed

Because they are temperature sensitive, cryoglobulins are hard to accurately
measure. The blood specimen must be collected in a special way. Test should
only be done in laboratories that are equipped for it.

Blood is drawn from a vein.Â A vein onÂ the inside of the elbow or the back of
the hand is used in most cases. Blood should NOT be drawn from a catheter that
has heparin in it. The site is cleaned with germ-killing medicine
(antiseptic). The health care provider wraps an elastic band around the upper
arm to apply pressure to the area and make the vein swell with blood.

Next, the provider gently inserts a needle into the vein. The blood collects
into an airtight vial or tube attached to the needle. The elastic band is
removed from your arm. The vial should be warm at room or body temperature,
before it is used. Vials that are colder than room temperature may not give
accurate results.

Once the blood has been collected, the needle is removed, and the puncture
site is covered to stop any bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may want to call ahead to ask to have your blood drawn by a lab technician
who has experience collecting blood for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people feel discomfort when the needle is inserted. Afterward, there may
be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done when a person has symptoms of a condition
associated with cryoglobulins. Cryoglobulins are associated with
cryoglobulinemia. They also occur in other conditions that affect the skin,
joints, kidneys, and nervous system.

## Normal Results

Normally, there are no cryoglobulins.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test may indicate:

    * Hepatitis (especially hepatitis C)
    * Infectious mononucleosis
    * Leukemia
    * Lymphoma
    * Macroglobulinemia -- primary
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus

Additional conditions under which the test may be performed includesÂ
nephrotic syndrome.

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Cryoglobulinemia of the fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1518t.jpg)Cryoglobulinemia of the fingers

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cryoglobulin, qualitative - serum. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:403.

De Vita S, Gandolfo S, Quartuccio L. Cryoglobulinemia. In: Hochberg MC,
Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds.
_Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 171.

McPherson RA, Riley RS, Massey D. Laboratory evaluation of immunoglobulin
function and humoral immunity. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Myeloid Leukemia _Read more_

![Childhood
Leukemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodLeukemia_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Leukemia _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

