Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003456.htm    
                                Description: Complement is a blood test that measures the activity of certain proteins in the liquid portion of your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Complement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003456.htm

# Complement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Complement is a blood test that measures the activity of certain proteins in
the liquid portion of your blood.

The complement system is a group of nearly 60 proteins that are in blood
plasma or on the surface of some cells. The proteins work with your immune
system and play a role to protect the body from infections, and to remove dead
cells and foreign material. Rarely, people may inherit deficiency of some
complement proteins. These people are prone to certain infections or
autoimmune disorders.

There are nine major complement proteins. They are labeled C1 through C9. This
article describes the test that measures total complement activity.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This is most often taken through a vein. The
procedure is called a venipuncture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel slight pain.
Others may feel only a prick or sting. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Total complement activity (CH50, CH100) looks at the overall activity of the
complement system. In most cases, other tests that are more specific for the
suspected disease are done first. C3 and C4 are the complement components
measured most often.

A complement test may be used to monitor people with an autoimmune disorder.
It is also used to see if treatment for their condition is working. For
example, people with active lupus erythematosus may have lower-than-normal
levels of the complement proteins C3 and C4.

Complement activity varies throughout the body. For example, in people with
rheumatoid arthritis, complement activity in the blood may be normal or
higher-than-normal, but much lower-than-normal in the joint fluid.

People with some bacterial blood infections and shock often have very low C3
and components of what's known as the alternative pathway. C3 is often also
low in fungal infections and some parasitic infections such as malaria.

## Normal Results

The normal results for this test are:

    * Total blood complement level: 41 to 90 hemolytic units
    * C1 level: 14.9 to 22.1 mg/dL
    * C3 levels: 88 to 201 mg/dL
    * C4 levels: 15 to 45 mg/dL

Note: mg/dL = milligrams per deciliter.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased complement activity may be seen in:

    * Cancer
    * Certain infections
    * Ulcerative colitis

Decreased complement activity may be seen in:

    * Cirrhosis
    * Glomerulonephritis
    * Hereditary angioedema
    * Hepatitis
    * Kidney transplant rejection
    * Lupus nephritis
    * Malnutrition
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Rare inherited complement deficiencies

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

The "complement cascade" is a series of reactions that take place in the
blood. The cascade activates the complement proteins. The result is an attack
unit that creates holes in the membrane of bacteria, killing them.

## Alternative Names

Complement assay; Complement proteins

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. C. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:266-432.

Holers VM. Complement and its receptors: new insights into human disease.
_Annu Rev Immunol_. 2014;3:433-459. PMID: 24499275
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24499275.

Merle NS, Church SE, Fremeaux-Bacchi V, Roumenina LT. Complement system part I
- molecular mechanisms of activation and regulation. _Front Immunol_.
2015;6:262. PMID: 26082779 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26082779.

Merle NS, Noe R, Halbwachs-Mecarelli L, Fremeaux-Bacchi V, Roumenina LT.
Complement system part II: role in immunity. _Front Immunol_. 2015;6:257.
PMID: 26074922 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26074922.

Morgan BP, Harris CL. Complement, a target for therapy in inflammatory and
degenerative diseases. _Nat Rev Drug Discov_. 2015;14(2):857-877. PMID:
26493766 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26493766.

## Review Date 1/16/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

