Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001223.htm    
                                Description: In a class of diseases known as autoimmune disorders, the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Collagen vascular disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001223.htm

# Collagen vascular disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

In a class of diseases known as autoimmune disorders, the body's immune system
attacks its own tissues. Some of these diseases are similar to each other.
They may involve arthritis and inflammation of arteries in the tissues. People
who developed these disorders were previously said to have "connective tissue"
or "collagen vascular" disease. We now have names for many specific conditions
such as:

    * Ankylosing spondylitis
    * Dermatomyositis
    * Polyarteritis nodosa
    * Psoriatic arthritis
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Scleroderma
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus

When a specific disease cannot be diagnosed, more general terms may be used.
These are called undifferentiated systemic rheumatic (connective tissue)
diseases or overlap syndromes.

## Images

    * ![Dermatomyositis - heliotrope eyelids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2402t.jpg)Dermatomyositis - heliotrope eyelids
    * ![Polyarteritis - microscopic on the shin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2440t.jpg)Polyarteritis - microscopic on the shin
    * ![Systemic lupus erythematosus rash on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2507t.jpg)Systemic lupus erythematosus rash on the face
    * ![Sclerodactyly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19508t.jpg)Sclerodactyly
    * ![Rheumatoid arthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17130t.jpg)Rheumatoid arthritis

## References

Bennett RM. Overlap syndromes. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes
IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 86.

Mims MP. Lymphocytosis, lymphocytopenia, hypergammaglobulinemia, and
hypogammaglobulinemia. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 49.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![Myositis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Myositis_thumb.jpg)Myositis _Read
more_

![Rheumatoid
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RheumatoidArthritis2_thumb.jpg)Rheumatoid
Arthritis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

