Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003638.htm    
                                Description: ESR stands for erythrocyte sedimentation rate. It is commonly called a &quot;sed rate.&quot;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ESR

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003638.htm

# ESR

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

ESR stands for erythrocyte sedimentation rate. It is commonly called a "sed
rate."

It is a test that indirectly measures how much inflammation is in the body.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand. The blood sample is sent
to a lab.

The test measures how fast red blood cells (called erythrocytes) fall to the
bottom of a tall, thin tube.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There are no special steps needed to prepare for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

Reasons why a "sed rate" may be done include:

    * Unexplained fevers
    * Certain types of joint pain or arthritis
    * Muscle symptoms
    * Other vague symptoms that cannot be explained

This test may also be used to monitor whether an illness is responding to
treatment.

This test can be used to monitor inflammatory diseases or cancer. It is not
used to diagnose a specific disorder.

However, the test is useful for detecting and monitoring:

    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Bone infections
    * Certain forms of arthritis
    * Inflammatory diseases

## Normal Results

For adults (Westergren method):

    * Men under 50 years old: less than 15 mm/hr
    * Men over 50 years old: less than 20 mm/hr
    * Women under 50 years old: less than 20 mm/hr
    * Women over 50 years old: less than 30 mm/hr 

For children (Westergren method):

    * Newborn: 0 to 2 mm/hr
    * Newborn to puberty: 3 to 13 mm/hr 

Note: mm/hr = millimeters per hour

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal ESR may help with a diagnosis, but it does not prove that you have
a certain condition. Other tests are almost always needed.

An increased ESR rate may occur in people with:

    * Anemia
    * Cancers such as lymphoma or multiple myeloma
    * Kidney disease
    * Pregnancy
    * Thyroid disease 

The immune system helps protect the body against harmful substances. An
autoimmune disorder is when the immune system mistakenly attacks and destroys
healthy body tissue. ESR is often higher than normal in people with an
autoimmune disorder.

Common autoimmune disorders include:

    * Lupus
    * Polymyalgia rheumatica
    * Rheumatoid arthritis in adults or children

Very high ESR levels occur with less common autoimmune or other disorders,
including:

    * Allergic vasculitis
    * Giant cell arteritis
    * Hyperfibrinogenemia (increased fibrinogen levels in the blood)
    * Macroglobulinemia - primary
    * Necrotizing vasculitis

An increased ESR rate may be due to some infections, including:

    * Bodywide (systemic) infection
    * Bone infections
    * Infection of the heart or heart valves
    * Rheumatic fever
    * Severe skin infections, such as erysipelas
    * Tuberculosis 

Lower-than-normal levels occur with:

    * Congestive heart failure
    * Hyperviscosity
    * Hypofibrinogenemia (decreased fibrinogen levels)
    * Leukemia
    * Low plasma protein (due to liver or kidney disease)
    * Polycythemia
    * Sickle cell anemia

## Alternative Names

Erythrocyte sedimentation rate; Sed rate; Sedimentation rate

## References

Pisetsky DS. Laboratory testing in the rheumatic diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 257.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![Autoimmune
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutoimmuneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Autoimmune
Diseases _Read more_

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

