Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000446.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced lupus erythematosus is an autoimmune disorder that is triggered by a reaction to a medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced lupus erythematosus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000446.htm

# Drug-induced lupus erythematosus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced lupus erythematosus is an autoimmune disorder that is triggered
by a reaction to a medicine.

## Causes

Drug-induced lupus erythematosus is similar but not identical to systemic
lupus erythematosus (SLE). It is an autoimmune disorder. This means your body
attacks healthy tissue by mistake. It is caused by a reaction to a medicine.
Related conditions are drug-induced cutaneous lupus and drug-induced ANCA
vasculitis.

The most common medicines known to cause drug-induced lupus erythematosus are:

    * Isoniazid
    * Hydralazine
    * Procainamide
    * Tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) alpha inhibitors (such as etanercept, infliximab and adalimumab)
    * Minocycline
    * Quinidine

Other less common drugs may also cause the condition. These may include:

    * Anti-seizure medicines
    * Capoten
    * Chlorpromazine
    * Methyldopa
    * Sulfasalazine
    * Levamisole, typically as a contaminant of cocaine

Cancer immunotherapy drugs such as pembrolizumab can also cause a variety of
autoimmune reactions including drug-induced lupus.

Symptoms of drug-induced lupus tend to occur after taking the drug for at
least 3 to 6 months.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Fever
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Joint pain
    * Joint swelling
    * Loss of appetite
    * Pleuritic chest pain
    * Skin rash on areas exposed to sunlight

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam and listen to your chest with
a stethoscope. The provider may hear a sound called a heart friction rub or
pleural friction rub.

A skin exam shows a rash.

Joints may be swollen and tender.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Antihistone antibody
    * Antinuclear antibody (ANA) panel
    * Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) panel  

    * Complete blood count (CBC) with differential
    * Comprehensive chemistry panel
    * Urinalysis

A chest x-ray may show signs of pleuritis or pericarditis (inflammation around
the lining of the lung or heart). An ECG may show that the heart is affected.

## Treatment

Most of the time, symptoms go away within several days to weeks after stopping
the medicine that caused the condition.

Treatment may include:

    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to treat arthritis and pleurisy
    * Corticosteroid creams to treat skin rashes
    * Antimalarial drugs (hydroxychloroquine) to treat skin and arthritis symptoms

If the condition is affecting your heart, kidney, or nervous system, you may
be prescribed high doses of corticosteroids (prednisone, methylprednisolone)
and immune system suppressants (azathioprine or cyclophosphamide). This is
rare.

When the disease is active, you should wear protective clothing and sunglasses
to guard against too much sun.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, drug-induced lupus erythematosus is not as severe as SLE.
The symptoms often go away within a few days to weeks after stopping the
medicine you were taking. Rarely, kidney inflammation (nephritis) can develop
with drug-induced lupus caused by TNF inhibitors or with ANCA vasculitis due
to hydralazine or levamisole. Nephritis may require treatment with prednisone
and immunosuppressive medicines.

Avoid taking the drug that caused the reaction in future. Symptoms are likely
to return if you do so.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Infection
    * Thrombocytopenia purpura -- bleeding near the skin surface, resulting from a low number of platelets in the blood
    * Hemolytic anemia
    * Myocarditis
    * Pericarditis
    * Nephritis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You develop new symptomsÂ when takingÂ any of the medicines listed above.
    * Your symptoms do not get better after you stop taking the medicine that caused the condition. 

## Prevention

Watch for signs of a reaction if you are taking any of the drugs that can
cause this problem.

## Alternative Names

Lupus - drug induced

## Images

    * ![Lupus, discoid  - view of lesions on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1868t.jpg)Lupus, discoid - view of lesions on the chest
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Benfaremo D, Manfredi L, Luchetti MM, Gabrielli A. Musculoskeletal and
rheumatic diseases induced by immune checkpoint inhibitors: a review of the
literature. _Curr Drug Saf_. 2018;13(3):150-164. PMID: 29745339
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29745339.

Dooley MA. Drug-induced lupus. In: Tsokos GC, ed. _Systemic Lupus
Erythematosus_. Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2016:chap 54.

Radhakrishnan J, Perazella MA. Drug-induced glomerular disease: attention
required! _Clin J Am Soc Nephrol_. 2015;10(7):1287-1290. PMID: 25876771
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25876771.

Richardson BC. Drug-induced lupus. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ,
Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 141.

Rubin RL. Drug-induced lupus. _Expert Opin Drug Saf_. 2015;14(3):361-378.
PMID: 25554102 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25554102.

Vaglio A, Grayson PC, Fenaroli P, et al. Drug-induced lupus: traditional and
new concepts. _Autoimmun Rev_. 2018;17(9):912-918. PMID: 30005854
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30005854.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus_thumb.jpg)Lupus _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

