Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003516.htm    
                                Description: A T-cell count measures the number of T cells in the blood. Your doctor may order this test if you have signs of a weak immune system, such as due to having HIV/AIDS.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

T-cell count

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003516.htm

# T-cell count

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A T-cell count measures the number of T cells in the blood. Your doctor may
order this test if you have signs of a weak immune system, such as due to
having HIV/AIDS.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

T cells are a type of lymphocyte. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell.
They make up part of the immune system. T cells help the body fight diseases
or harmful substances, such as bacteria or viruses.

Your health care provider may order this test if you have signs of a weak
immune system (immunodeficiency disorder). It may also be ordered if you have
a disease of the lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are small glands that make some
types of white blood cells. The test is also used to monitor how well
treatment for these types of diseases is working.

One type of T cell is the CD4 cell, or "helper cell." People with HIV/AIDS
have regular T-cell tests to check their CD4 cell counts. The results help the
provider monitor the disease and its treatment.

## Normal Results

Normal results vary depending on the type of T-cell tested.

In adults, a normal CD4 cell count ranges from 500 to 1,200 cells/mm3 (0.64 to
1.18 Ã 109/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher than normal T-cell levels may be due to:

    * Cancer, such as acute lymphocytic leukemia or multiple myeloma
    * Infections, such as hepatitis or mononucleosis

Lower than normal T-cell levels may be due to:

    * Acute viral infections
    * Aging
    * Cancer
    * Immune system diseases, such as HIV/AIDS
    * Radiation therapy
    * Steroid treatment 

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins 

This test is often performed on people with a weakened immune system.
Therefore, the risk for infection may be higher than when blood is drawn from
a person with a healthy immune system.

## Alternative Names

Thymus derived lymphocyte count; T-lymphocyte count; T cell count

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Berliner N. Leukocytosis and leukopenia. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 158.

Holland SM, Gallin JI. Evaluation of the patient with suspected
immunodeficiency. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 12.

McPherson RA, Massey HD. Overview of the immune system and immunologic
disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_ 2\. 3rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2017:chap 43.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![Childhood
Leukemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodLeukemia_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Leukemia _Read more_

![HIV/AIDS](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDS_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

