Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001301.htm    
                                Description: Lymphadenitis is an infection of the lymph nodes (also called lymph glands). It is a complication of certain bacterial infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lymphadenitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001301.htm

# Lymphadenitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lymphadenitis is an infection of the lymph nodes (also called lymph glands).
It is a complication of certain bacterial infections.

## Causes

The lymph system (lymphatics) is a network of lymph nodes, lymph ducts, lymph
vessels, and organs that produce and move a fluid called lymph from tissues to
the bloodstream.

The lymph glands, or lymph nodes, are small structures that filter the lymph
fluid. There are many white blood cells in the lymph nodes to help fight
infection.

Lymphadenitis occurs when the glands become enlarged by swelling
(inflammation), often in response to bacteria, viruses, or fungi. The swollen
glands are usually found near the site of an infection, tumor, or
inflammation.

Lymphadenitis may occur after skin infections or other infections caused by
bacteria such as streptococcus or staphylococcus. Sometimes, it is caused by
rare infections such as tuberculosis or cat scratch disease (bartonella).

## Symptoms

Â Symptoms may include:

    * Red, tender skin over lymph node
    * Swollen, tender, or hard lymph nodes
    * Fever

Lymph nodes may feel rubbery if an abscessÂ (pocket of pus) has formed or they
have become inflamed.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This includes feeling
your lymph nodes and looking for signs of injury or infection around any
swollen lymph nodes.

A biopsy and culture of the affected area or node may reveal the cause of the
inflammation. Blood cultures may reveal spread of infection (often bacteria)
to the bloodstream.

## Treatment

Lymphadenitis may spread within hours. Treatment should begin right away.

Treatment may include:

    * Antibiotics to treat any bacterial infection
    * Analgesics (painkillers) to control pain
    * Anti-inflammatory medicines to reduce inflammation
    * Cool compresses to reduce inflammation and pain

Surgery may be needed to drain an abscess.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prompt treatment with antibiotics usually leads to a complete recovery. It may
take weeks, or even months, for swelling to disappear.

## Possible Complications

Untreated lymphadenitis may lead to:

    * Abscess formation
    * Cellulitis (a skin infection)
    * Fistulas (seen in lymphadenitis that is due to tuberculosis)
    * Sepsis (bloodstream infection)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if you have symptoms of
lymphadenitis.

## Prevention

Good general health and hygiene are helpful in the prevention of any
infection.

## Alternative Names

Lymph node infection; Lymph gland infection; Localized lymphadenopathy

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Immune system structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8932t.jpg)Immune system structures
    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Pasternack MS. Lymphadenitis and lymphangitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 95.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

