Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000824.htm    
                                Description: Lymph nodes are part of the lymph system, a network of organs, nodes, ducts, and vessels that support the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cancer and lymph nodes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000824.htm

# Cancer and lymph nodes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lymph nodes are part of the lymph system, a network of organs, nodes, ducts,
and vessels that support the body's immune system.

Nodes are little filters throughout the body. The cells in lymph nodes help to
destroy infection, such as from a virus, or harmful cells, such as cancer
cells.

Cancer can spread or start in lymph nodes.

## How Cancer Gets in the Lymph Nodes

Cancer can start in the lymph nodes. This is called lymphoma. There are
several types of lymphomas, such as non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

Cancer cells can also spread to the lymph nodes from a cancer in any part of
the body. This is called metastatic cancer. Cancer cells break off from a
tumor in the body and travel to an area of lymph nodes. The cancer cells often
travel to nodes near the tumor first.

## How Cancer in Lymph Nodes is Found

Nodes swell as they work hard to fight cancer cells.

You or your health care provider may feel or see swollen lymph nodes if they
are close to the surface of the skin, such as in the neck, groin, or
underarms.

Keep in mind that many other things also can cause lymph nodes to swell. So
having swollen lymph nodes does not mean you definitely have cancer.

When a provider suspects that cancer cells may be present in lymph nodes,
certain tests may be performed to detect cancer, such as:

    * Lymph node biopsy
    * B-cell leukemia/lymphoma panel
    * Other imaging tests 

## What it Means When Cancer is Found

A node can have a small or large amount of cancer cells in it. There are
hundreds of nodes throughout the body. Several clusters or only a few nodes
may be affected. Nodes near or far from the primary tumor may be affected.

The location, amount of swelling, number of cancer cells, and number of nodes
affected will help determine the treatment plan. When cancer has spread to
lymph nodes, it is in a more advanced stage.

The cancer in lymph nodes can be treated with:

    * Surgery
    * Chemotherapy
    * Radiation

## Removing Lymph Nodes

Surgical removal of lymph nodes is called lymphadenectomy. Surgery can help to
get rid of the cancer before spreading further.

After nodes are removed, fluid has fewer places to go. Sometimes back up of
lymph fluid, or lymphedema, can occur.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have questions or concerns about swollen lymph nodes
or your cancer treatment.

## Alternative Names

Lymph gland; Lymphadenopathy - cancer

## References

Gangi A, Giuliano AE. Lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymphadenectomy. In:
Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:686-690.

Hall JE. The microcirculation and lymphatic system: capillary fluid exchange,
interstitial fluid, and lymph flow. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall Textbook
of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

Padera TP, Meijer EF, Munn LL. The lymphatic system in disease processes and
cancer progression. _Annu Rev Biomed Eng_. 2016;18:125-158. PMID: 26863922
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26863922.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer
    * Lymphatic Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

