Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000148.htm    
                                Description: A cystic hygroma is a growth that often occurs in the head and neck area. It is a birth defect.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cystic hygroma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000148.htm

# Cystic hygroma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cystic hygroma is a growth that often occurs in the head and neck area. It
is a birth defect.

## Causes

A cystic hygroma occurs as the baby grows in the womb. It forms from pieces of
material that carry fluid and white blood cells. This material is called
embryonic lymphatic tissue.

After birth, a cystic hygroma most often looks like a soft bulge under the
skin. The cyst may not be found at birth. It typically grows as the child
grows. Sometimes it is not noticed until the child is older.

## Symptoms

A common symptom is a neck growth. It may be found at birth, or discovered
later in an infant after an upper respiratory tract infection (such asÂ a
cold).

## Exams and Tests

Sometimes, a cystic hygroma is seen using a pregnancy ultrasound when the baby
is still in the womb. This can mean that the baby has a chromosomal problem or
other birth defects.

The following tests may be done:

    * Chest x-ray
    * Ultrasound
    * CT scan
    * MRI scan

If the condition is detected during a pregnancy ultrasound, other ultrasound
tests or amniocentesis may be recommended.

## Treatment

Treatment involves removing all of the abnormal tissue. However, cystic
hygromas can often grow, making it impossible to remove all of the tissue.

Other treatments have been tried with only limited success. These include:

    * Chemotherapy medicines
    * Injection of sclerosing medicines
    * Radiation therapy
    * Steroids

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is good if surgery can totally remove the abnormal tissue. In
cases where complete removal is not possible, the cystic hygroma commonly
returns.

The long-term outcome may also depend on what other chromosomal abnormalities
or birth defects, if any, are present.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Damage to structures in the neck caused by surgery
    * Infection
    * Return of the cystic hygroma

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you notice a lump in your neck or your child's neck, call your health care
provider.

## Alternative Names

Lymphangioma; Lymphatic malformation

## References

Kelly M, Tower RL, Camitta BM. Abnormalities of lymphatic vessels. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 516.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Lower airway, parenchymal, and pulmonary vascular
diseases. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of
Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 136.

Richards DS. Obstetric ultrasound: imaging, dating, growth, and anomaly. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Rizzi MD, Wetmore RF, Potsic WP. Differential diagnosis of neck masses. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 198.

## Review Date 8/12/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

