Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003100.htm    
                                Description: A groin lump is swelling in the groin area. This is where the upper leg meets the lower abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Groin lump

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003100.htm

# Groin lump

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A groin lump is swelling in the groin area. This is where the upper leg meets
the lower abdomen.

## Considerations

A groin lump may be firm or soft, tender, or not painful at all. Your health
care provider should examine any groin lumps.

## Causes

The most common cause of a groin lump is swollen lymph nodes. These may be
caused by:

    * Cancer, most often lymphoma (cancer of the lymph system)
    * Infection in the legs
    * Body-wide infections often caused by viruses
    * Infections spread through sexual contact such as genital herpes, chlamydia, or gonorrhea

Other causes include any of the following:

    * Allergic reaction
    * Drug reaction
    * Harmless (benign) cyst
    * Hernia (a soft, large bulge in the groin on one or both sides)
    * Injury to the groin area
    * Lipomas (harmless fatty growths)

## Home Care

Follow the treatment your provider prescribed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment to see your provider if you have an unexplained groin
lump.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you and may feel the lymph nodes in your groin area.
A genital or pelvic exam may be done.

You will be asked about your medical history and symptoms, such as when you
first noticed the lump, whether it came on suddenly or slowly, or whether it
gets larger when you cough or strain. You may also be asked about your sexual
activities.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests such as a CBC or blood differential
    * Blood tests to check for syphilis, HIV, or other sexually transmitted infections
    * Kidney function tests
    * Liver function tests
    * Liver spleen scan
    * Lymph node biopsy

## Alternative Names

Lump in the groin; Inguinal lymphadenopathy; Localized lymphadenopathy -
groin; Bubo; Lymphadenopathy - groin

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Swollen lymph nodes in the groin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9000t.jpg)Swollen lymph nodes in the groin

## References

Armitage JO, Bierman PJ. Approach to the patient with lymphadenopathy and
splenomegaly. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 168.

Malangoni MA, Rosen MJ. Hernias. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

McGee S. Peripheral lymphadenopathy. In: McGee S, ed. _Evidence-Based Physical
Diagnosis._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

