Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003099.htm    
                                Description: An armpit lump is a swelling or bump under the arm. A lump in the armpit can have many causes. These include swollen lymph nodes, infections, or cysts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Armpit lump

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003099.htm

# Armpit lump

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An armpit lump is a swelling or bump under the arm. A lump in the armpit can
have many causes. These include swollen lymph nodes, infections, or cysts.

## Causes

Lumps in the armpit may have many causes.

Lymph nodes act as filters that can catch germs or cancerous tumor cells. When
they do, lymph nodes increase in size and are easily felt. Reasons lymph nodes
in the armpit area may be enlarged are:

    * Arm or breast infection
    * Some bodywide infections, such as mono, AIDS, or herpes
    * Cancers, such as lymphomas or breast cancer

Cysts or abscesses under the skin may also produce large, painful lumps in the
armpit. These may be caused by shaving or use of antiperspirants (not
deodorants). This is most often seen in teens just beginning to shave.

Other causes of armpit lumps may include:

    * Cat scratch disease
    * Lipomas (harmless fatty growths)
    * Use of certain medicines or vaccinations

## Home Care

Home care depends on the reason for the lump. Check with your health care
provider to determine the cause.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

An armpit lump in a woman may be a sign of breast cancer, and it should be
checked by a provider right away.

Call your provider if you have an unexplained armpit lump. Do not try to
diagnose lumps by yourself.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and gently press on the nodes. You will be
asked questions about your medical history and symptoms, such as:

    * When did you first notice the lump? Has the lump changed?
    * Are you breastfeeding?
    * Is there anything that makes the lump worse?
    * Is the lump painful?
    * Do you have any other symptoms? 

You may need more tests, depending on the results of your physical exam.

## Alternative Names

Lump in the armpit; Localized lymphadenopathy - armpit; Axillary
lymphadenopathy; Axillary lymph enlargement; Lymph nodes enlargement -
axillary; Axillary abscess

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Swollen lymph nodes under arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8623t.jpg)Swollen lymph nodes under arm

## References

Miyake KK, Ikeda DM. Mammographic and ultrasound analysis of breast masses.
In: Ikeda DM, Miyake KK, eds. _Breast Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 4.

Tower RL, Camitta BM. Lymphadenopathy. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;2020:chap 517.

Winter JN. Approach to the patient with lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 159.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arm Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArmInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Arm
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

