Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003098.htm    
                                Description: A neck lump is any lump, bump, or swelling in the neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neck lump

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003098.htm

# Neck lump

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A neck lump is any lump, bump, or swelling in the neck.

## Considerations

There are many causes of lumps in the neck. The most common lumps or swellings
are enlarged lymph nodes. These can be caused by bacterial or viral
infections, cancer (malignancy), or other rare causes.

Swollen salivary glands under the jaw may be caused by infection or cancer.
Lumps in the muscles of the neck are caused by injury or torticollis. These
lumps are often at the front of the neck. Lumps in the skin or just below the
skin are often caused by cysts, such as sebaceous cysts.

The thyroid gland may also produce swelling or one or more lumps. This can be
due to thyroid disease or cancer. Most cancers of the thyroid gland grow very
slowly. They are often cured with surgery, even if they have been present for
several years.

All neck lumps in children and adults should be checked right away by a health
care provider. In children, most neck lumps are caused by infections that can
be treated. Treatment should start quickly to prevent complications or the
spread of infection.

As adults age, the likelihood of the lump being a cancer increases. This is
particularly true for people who smoke or drink a lot of alcohol. Most lumps
in adults are not cancers.

## Causes

Lumps in the neck from swollen lymph nodes may be caused by:

    * Bacterial or viral infection
    * Cancer
    * Thyroid disease
    * Allergic reaction

Lumps in the neck due to enlarged salivary glands may be caused by:

    * Infection
    * Mumps
    * Salivary gland tumor
    * Stone in salivary duct

## Home Care

See your provider to have the cause of the neck lump treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have an abnormal neck swelling or lumps in your
neck.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will take your medical history and do a physical exam.

You may be asked questions such as:

    * Where is the lump located?
    * Is it a hard lump or a soft, pliable (moves slightly), bag-like (cystic) mass?
    * Is it painless?
    * Is the entire neck swollen?
    * Has it been growing bigger? Over how many months?
    * Do you have a rash or other symptoms?
    * Do you have difficulty breathing? 

If you are diagnosed with a thyroid goiter, you may need to take medicine or
have surgery to remove it.

You may need the following tests if the provider suspects a thyroid nodule:

    * CT scan of the head or neck
    * Radioactive thyroid scan
    * Thyroid biopsy

If the lump is caused by a bacterial infection, you may need to take
antibiotics. If the cause is a noncancerous mass or cyst, you may need surgery
to remove it.

## Alternative Names

Lump in the neck

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Neck lump](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9527t.jpg)Neck lump

## References

Nugent A, El-Deiry M. Differential diagnosis of neck masses. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 114.

Pfaff JA, Moore GP. Otolaryngology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 62.

Wareing MJ. Ear, nose and throat. In: Glynn M, Drake WM, eds. _Hutchison's
Clinical Methods_. 24th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

