Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003798.htm    
                                Description: A lymphangiogram is a special x-ray of the lymph nodes and lymph vessels. Lymph nodes produce white blood cells (lymphocytes) that help fight infections. The lymph nodes also filter and trap cancer cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lymphangiogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003798.htm

# Lymphangiogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lymphangiogram is a special x-ray of the lymph nodes and lymph vessels.
Lymph nodes produce white blood cells (lymphocytes) that help fight
infections. The lymph nodes also filter and trap cancer cells.

The lymph nodes and vessels are not seen on a normal x-ray, so a dye or
radioisotope (radioactive compound) is injected into the body to highlight the
area being studied.

## How the Test is Performed

You may be offered medicine to help you relax before the test.

You sit in a special chair or on an x-ray table. The health care provider
cleans your feet, and then injects a small amount of blue dye into the area
(called webbing) between your toes.

Thin, bluish lines appear on the top of the foot within 15 minutes. These
lines identify the lymph channels. The provider numbs the area, makes a small
surgical cut near one of the larger blue lines, and inserts a thin flexible
tube into a lymph channel. This is done on each foot. Dye (contrast medium)
flows through the tube very slowly, over a period of 60 to 90 minutes.

Another method may also be used. Instead of injecting blue dye between your
toes, your provider may numb the skin over your groin and then insert a thin
needle under ultrasound guidance into a lymph node in your groin. Contrast
will be injected through the needle and into the lymph node using a type of
pump called an insufflator.

A type of x-ray machine, called a fluoroscope, projects the images on a TV
monitor. The provider uses the images to follow the dye as it spreads through
the lymphatic system up your legs, groin, and along the back of the abdominal
cavity.

Once the dye is completely injected, the catheter is removed and stitches are
used to close the surgical cut. The area is bandaged. X-rays are taken of the
legs, pelvis, abdomen, and chest areas. More x-rays may be taken the next day.

If the test is being done to see if breast cancer or melanoma has spread, the
blue dye is mixed with a radioactive compound. Images are taken to watch how
the substance spreads to other lymph nodes. This can help your provider better
understand where the cancer has spread when a biopsy is being performed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You must sign a consent form. You may be asked to not eat or drink for several
hours before the test. You may wish to empty your bladder just before the
test.

Tell the provider if you are pregnant or you have bleeding problems. Also
mention if you have had an allergic reaction to x-ray contrast material or any
iodine-containing substance.

If you are having this test done with sentinel lymph node biopsy (for breast
cancer and melanoma), then you will need to prepare for the operating room. A
surgeon and anesthesiologist will tell you how to prepare for the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people feel a brief sting when the blue dye and numbing medicines are
injected. You may feel pressure as the dye starts to flow into your body,
particularly behind the knees and in the groin area.

The surgical cuts will be sore for a few days. The blue dye causes skin,
urine, and stool discoloration for about 2 days.

## Why the Test is Performed

A lymphangiogram is used with lymph node biopsy to determine the possible
spread of cancer and the effectiveness of cancer therapy.

Contrast dye and x-rays are used to help determine the cause of swelling in an
arm or leg and check for diseases that may be caused by parasites.

Additional conditions under which the test may be performed:

    * Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Enlarged lymph nodes (swollen glands) that have a foamy appearance may be a
sign of lymphatic cancer.

Nodes or parts of the nodes that do not fill with the dye suggest a blockage
and may be a sign of cancer spreading through the lymph system. Blockage of
the lymph vessels may be caused by tumor, infection, injury, or previous
surgery.

Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## Risks

Risks related to the injection of the dye (contrast medium) may include:

    * Allergic reaction
    * Fever
    * Infection
    * Inflammation of the lymph vessels

There is low radiation exposure. However, most experts feel that the risk of
most x-rays is smaller than other risks we take every day. Pregnant women and
children are more sensitive to the risks of the x-ray.

## Considerations

The dye (contrast medium) can stay in the lymph nodes for up to 2 years.

## Alternative Names

Lymphography; Lymphangiography

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Lymphangiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9605t.jpg)Lymphangiogram

## References

Ruehm SG. Clinical manifestations of lymphatic disease. In: Mauro MA, Murphy
KPJ, Thomson KR, Venbrux AC, Morgan RA, eds. _Image-Guided Interventions_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 122.

Witte MH, Bernas MJ. Lymphatic pathophysiology. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

