Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002247.htm    
                                Description: The lymph system is a network of organs, lymph nodes, lymph ducts, and lymph vessels that make and move lymph from tissues to the bloodstream. The lymph system is a major part of the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lymph system

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002247.htm

# Lymph system

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The lymph system is a network of organs, lymph nodes, lymph ducts, and lymph
vessels that make and move lymph from tissues to the bloodstream. The lymph
system is a major part of the body's immune system.

![Lymphatics and the
breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200103t.gif)Watch this video
about:Lymphatics and the breast

## Information

Lymph is a clear-to-white fluid made of:

    * White blood cells, especially lymphocytes, the cells that attack bacteria in the blood
    * Fluid from the intestines called chyle, which contains proteins and fats 

Lymph nodes are soft, small, round- or bean-shaped structures. They usually
cannot be seen or easily felt. They are located in clusters in various parts
of the body, such as the:

    * Neck
    * Armpit
    * Groin
    * Inside the center of the chest and abdomen 

![Lymph nodes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200102t.gif)Watch
this video about:Lymph nodes

Lymph nodes make immune cells that help the body fight infection. They also
filter the lymph fluid and remove foreign material such as bacteria and cancer
cells. When bacteria are recognized in the lymph fluid, the lymph nodes make
more infection-fighting white blood cells. This causes the nodes to swell. The
swollen nodes are sometimes felt in the neck, under the arms, and groin.

The lymph system includes the:

    * Tonsils
    * Adenoids
    * Spleen
    * Thymus 

## Alternative Names

Lymphatic system

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19672t.jpg)Lymphatic system

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Lymphatic system. In:
Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

Hall JE. The microcirculation and lymphatic system: capillary fluid exchange,
interstitial fluid, and lymph flow. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall Textbook
of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

