Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003097.htm    
                                Description: Lymph nodes are present throughout your body. They are an important part of your immune system. Lymph nodes help your body recognize and fight germs, infections, and other foreign substances.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swollen lymph nodes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003097.htm

# Swollen lymph nodes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lymph nodes are present throughout your body. They are an important part of
your immune system. Lymph nodes help your body recognize and fight germs,
infections, and other foreign substances.

The term "swollen glands" refers to enlargement of one or more lymph nodes.
The medical name for swollen lymph nodes is lymphadenopathy.

In a child, a node is considered enlarged if it is more than 1 centimeter (0.4
inch) wide.

## Considerations

![Lymph nodes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200102t.gif)Watch
this video about:Lymph nodes

Common areas where the lymph nodes can be felt (with the fingers) include:

    * Groin
    * Armpit
    * Neck (there is a chain of lymph nodes on either side of the front of the neck, both sides of the neck, and down each side of the back of the neck)
    * Under the jaw and chin
    * Behind the ears
    * On the back of the head 

## Causes

Infections are the most common cause of swollen lymph nodes. Infections that
can cause them include:

    * Abscessed or impacted tooth
    * Ear infection
    * Colds, flu, and other infections
    * Swelling (inflammation) of gums (gingivitis)
    * Mononucleosis
    * Mouth sores
    * Sexually transmitted illness (STI)
    * Tonsillitis
    * Tuberculosis
    * Skin infections

Immune or autoimmune disorders that can cause swollen lymph nodes are:

    * HIV
    * Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 

Cancers that can cause swollen lymph nodes include:

    * Leukemia
    * Hodgkin disease
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Many other cancers may also cause this problem. 

Certain medicines can cause swollen lymph nodes, including:

    * Seizure medicines such as phenytoin
    * Typhoid immunization

Which lymph nodes are swollen depends on the cause and the body parts
involved. Swollen lymph nodes that appear suddenly and are painful are usually
due to injury or infection. Slow, painless swelling may be due to cancer or a
tumor.

## Home Care

Painful lymph nodes are generally a sign that your body is fighting an
infection. The soreness usually goes away in a couple of days, without
treatment. The lymph node may not return to its normal size for several weeks.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your lymph nodes do not get smaller after several weeks or they continue to get larger.
    * They are red and tender.
    * They feel hard, irregular, or fixed in place.
    * You have fever, night sweats, or unexplained weight loss.
    * Any node in a child is larger than 1 centimeter (a little less than half inch) in diameter. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical examination and ask about your medical
history and symptoms. Examples of questions that may be asked include:

    * When the swelling began
    * If the swelling came on suddenly
    * Whether any nodes are painful when pressed

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood tests, including liver function tests, kidney function tests, and CBC with differential
    * Lymph node biopsy
    * Chest x-ray
    * Liver-spleen scan

Treatment depends on the cause of the swollen nodes.

## Alternative Names

Swollen glands; Glands - swollen; Lymph nodes - swollen; Lymphadenopathy

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Infectious mononucleosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17267t.jpg)Infectious mononucleosis
    * ![Circulation of lymph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19079t.jpg)Circulation of lymph
    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19672t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Swollen glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9014t.jpg)Swollen glands

## References

Armitage JO, Bierman PJ. Approach to the patient with lymphadenopathy and
splenomegaly. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 168.

Tower RL, Camitta BM. Lymphadenopathy. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 490.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

