Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000060.htm    
                                Description: A skull fracture is a fracture or break in the cranial (skull) bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skull fracture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000060.htm

# Skull fracture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skull fracture is a fracture or break in the cranial (skull) bones.

## Considerations

Skull fractures may occur with head injuries. The skull provides good
protection for the brain. However, a severe impact or blow can cause the skull
to break. It may be accompanied by concussion or other injury to the brain.

The brain can be affected directly by damage to the nervous system tissue and
bleeding. The brain can also be affected by bleeding under the skull. This can
compress the underlying brain tissue (subdural or epidural hematoma).

A simple fracture is a break in the bone without damage to the skin.

A linear skull fracture is a break in a cranial bone resembling a thin line,
without splintering, depression, or distortion of bone.

A depressed skull fracture is a break in a cranial bone (or "crushed" portion
of skull) with depression of the bone in toward the brain.

A compound fracture involves a break in, or loss of, skin and splintering of
the bone.

## Causes

Causes of skull fracture can include:

    * Head trauma
    * Falls, automobile accidents, physical assault, and sports 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Bleeding from wound, ears, nose, or around eyes
    * Bruising behind the ears or under the eyes
    * Changes in pupils (sizes unequal, not reactive to light)
    * Confusion
    * Convulsions
    * Difficulties with balance
    * Drainage of clear or bloody fluid from ears or nose
    * Drowsiness
    * Headache
    * Loss of consciousness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Restlessness, irritability
    * Slurred speech
    * Stiff neck
    * Swelling
    * Visual disturbances

In some cases, the only symptom may be a bump on the head. A bump or bruise
may take up to 24 hours to develop.

## First Aid

Take the following steps if you think someone has a skull fracture:

    1. Check the airways, breathing, and circulation. If necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.
    2. Avoid moving the person (unless absolutely necessary) until medical help arrives. Have someone to call 911 (or the local emergency number) for medical assistance.
    3. If the person must be moved, take care to stabilize the head and neck. Place your hands on both sides of the head and under the shoulders. Do not allow the head to bend forward or backward, or to twist or turn.
    4. Carefully check the site of injury, but do not probe in or around the site with a foreign object. It can be hard to know if the skull is fractured or depressed (dented in) at the site of injury.
    5. If there is bleeding, apply firm pressure with a clean cloth over a broad area to control blood loss.
    6. If blood soaks through, do not remove the original cloth. Instead, apply more cloths on top, and continue to apply pressure.
    7. If the person is vomiting, stabilize the head and neck, and carefully turn the victim to the side to prevent choking on vomit.
    8. If the person is conscious and experiencing any of the previously listed symptoms, transport to the nearest emergency medical facility (even if the person does not think medical help is needed).

## DO NOT

Follow these precautions:

    * DO NOT move the person unless absolutely necessary. Head injuries may be associated with spinal injuries.
    * DO NOT remove protruding objects.
    * DO NOT allow the person to continue with physical activities.
    * DO NOT forget to watch the person closely until medical help arrives.
    * DO NOT give the person any medicines before talking to a doctor.
    * DO NOT leave the person alone, even if there are no obvious problems. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if:

    * There are problems with breathing or circulation.
    * Direct pressure does not stop bleeding from the nose, ears, or wound.
    * There is drainage of clear fluid from the nose or ears.
    * There is facial swelling, bleeding, or bruising.
    * There is an object protruding from the skull.
    * The person is unconscious, is experiencing convulsions, has multiple injuries, appears to be in any distress, or cannot think clearly. 

## Prevention

Not all head injuries can be prevented. The following simple steps can help
keep you and your child safe:

    1. Always use safety equipment during activities that could cause a head injury. These include seat belts, bicycle or motorcycle helmets, and hard hats.
    2. Learn and follow bicycle safety recommendations.
    3. Do not drink and drive. Do not allow yourself to be driven by someone who may have been drinking alcohol or is otherwise impaired. 

## Alternative Names

Basilar skull fracture; Depressed skull fracture; Linear skull fracture

## Images

    * ![Skull of an adult](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1735t.jpg)Skull of an adult
    * ![Skull fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19084t.jpg)Skull fracture
    * ![Skull fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19085t.jpg)Skull fracture
    * ![Battle's sign - behind the ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3067t.jpg)Battle's sign - behind the ear
    * ![Infant skull fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9054t.jpg)Infant skull fracture

## References

Kerr HA. Closed head injury. _Clin Sports Med_. 2013;32(2):273-287. PMID:
23522509 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23522509.

Ling GSF. Traumatic brain injury and spinal cord injury. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 399.

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Head Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeadInjuries_thumb.jpg)Head
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

