Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000028.htm    
                                Description: A head injury is any trauma to the scalp, skull, or brain. The injury may be only a minor bump on the skull or a serious brain injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Head injury - first aid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000028.htm

# Head injury - first aid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A head injury is any trauma to the scalp, skull, or brain. The injury may be
only a minor bump on the skull or a serious brain injury.

![Head injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19611.jpg)

Head injury can be either closed or open (penetrating).

    * A closed head injury means you received a hard blow to the head from striking an object, but the object did not break the skull.
    * An open, or penetrating, head injury means you were hit with an object that broke the skull and entered the brain. This is more likely to happen when you move at high speed, such as going through the windshield during a car accident. It can also happen from a gunshot to the head. 

Head injuries include:

    * Concussion, in which the brain is shaken, is the most common type of traumatic brain injury.
    * Scalp wounds.
    * Skull fractures. 

Head injuries may cause bleeding:

    * In the brain tissue
    * In the layers that surround the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage, subdural hematoma,Â extradural hematoma) 

Head injury is a common reason for an emergency room visit. A large number of
people who suffer head injuries are children. Traumatic brain injury (TBI)
accounts for over 1 in 6 injury-related hospital admissions each year.

## Causes

Common causes of head injury include:

    * Accidents at home, work, outdoors, or while playing sports
    * Falls
    * Physical assault
    * Traffic accidents

Most of these injuries are minor because the skull protects the brain. Some
injuries are severe enough to require a stay in the hospital.

## Symptoms

Head injuries may cause bleeding in the brain tissue and the layers that
surround the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage, subdural hematoma, epidural
hematoma).

Symptoms of a head injury can occur right away. Or symptoms can develop slowly
over several hours or days. Even if the skull is not fractured, the brain can
hit the inside of the skull and be bruised. The head may look fine, but
problems could result from bleeding or swelling inside the skull.

The spinal cord is also likely to be injured in any serious trauma.

Some head injuries cause changes in brain function. This is called a traumatic
brain injury. Concussion is a mild traumatic brain injury. Symptoms of a
concussion can range from mild to severe.

## First Aid

Learning to recognize a serious head injury and give basic first aid can save
someone's life. For a moderate to severe head injury, CALL 911 RIGHT AWAY.

Get medical help right away if the person:

    * Becomes very sleepy
    * Behaves abnormally
    * Develops a severe headache or stiff neck
    * Has pupils (the dark central part of the eye) of unequal sizes
    * Is unable to move an arm or leg
    * Loses consciousness, even briefly
    * Vomits more than once 
![Indications of head
injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8803.jpg)

Then take the following steps:

    1. Check the person's airway, breathing, and circulation. If necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.
    2. If the person's breathing and heart rate are normal, but the person is unconscious, treat as if there is a spinal injury. Stabilize the head and neck by placing your hands on both sides of the person's head. Keep the head in line with the spine and prevent movement. Wait for medical help.
    3. Stop any bleeding by firmly pressing a clean cloth on the wound. If the injury is serious, be careful not to move the person's head. If blood soaks through the cloth, do not remove it. Place another cloth over the first one.
    4. If you suspect a skull fracture, do not apply direct pressure to the bleeding site, and do not remove any debris from the wound. Cover the wound with sterile gauze dressing.
    5. If the person is vomiting, to prevent choking, roll the person's head, neck, and body as one unit onto their side. This still protects the spine, which you must always assume is injured in the case of a head injury. Children often vomit once after a head injury. This may not be a problem, but call a doctor for further guidance.
    6. Apply ice packs to swollen areas. 

## DO NOT

Follow these precautions:

    * DO NOT wash a head wound that is deep or bleeding a lot.
    * DO NOT remove any object sticking out of a wound.
    * DO NOT move the person unless absolutely necessary.
    * DO NOT shake the person if he or she seems dazed.
    * DO NOT remove a helmet if you suspect a serious head injury.
    * DO NOT pick up a fallen child with any sign of head injury.
    * DO NOT drink alcohol within 48 hours of a serious head injury. 

A serious head injury that involves bleeding or brain damage must be treated
in a hospital.

For a mild head injury, no treatment may be needed. However, watch for
symptoms of a head injury, which can show up later.

Your health care provider will explain what to expect, how to manage any
headaches, how to treat your other symptoms, when to return to sports, school,
work, and other activities, and signs or symptoms to worry about.

    * Children will need to be watched and make activity changes.
    * Adults also need close observation and activity changes. 

Both adults and children must follow the provider's instructions about when it
will be possible to return to sports.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 right away if:

    * There is severe head or face bleeding.
    * The person is confused, tired, or unconscious.
    * The person stops breathing.
    * You suspect a serious head or neck injury, or the person develops any signs or symptoms of a serious head injury. 

## Prevention

Not all head injuries can be prevented. The following simple steps can help
keep you and your child safe:

    * Always use safety equipment during activities that could cause a head injury. These include seat belts, bicycle or motorcycle helmets, and hard hats.
    * Learn and follow bicycle safety recommendations.
    * Do not drink and drive, and do not allow yourself to be driven by someone who you know or suspect has been drinking alcohol or is impaired in another way. 
![Bicycle helmet - proper
usage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19474.jpg)

## Alternative Names

Brain injury; Head trauma

## Patient Instructions

    * Concussion in adults - discharge
    * Concussion in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Concussion in children - discharge
    * Concussion in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Preventing head injuries in children

## Images

    * ![Concussion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17143t.jpg)Concussion
    * ![Bicycle helmet - proper usage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19474t.jpg)Bicycle helmet - proper usage
    * ![Head injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19611t.jpg)Head injury
    * ![Intracerebellar hemorrhage - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2316t.jpg)Intracerebellar hemorrhage - CT scan
    * ![Indications of head injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8803t.jpg)Indications of head injury

## References

Liebig CW, Congeni JA. Sports-related traumatic brain injury (concussion). In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics._ 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 688.

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.Â

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Head Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeadInjuries_thumb.jpg)Head
Injuries _Read more_

![Traumatic Brain
Injury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TraumaticBrainInjury_thumb.jpg)Traumatic
Brain Injury _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

