Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000579.htm    
                                Description: Your child is scheduled to have surgery. Learn about what to expect on the day of surgery so that you will be prepared. If your child is old enough to understand, you can help them prepare as well.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

The day of surgery for your child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000579.htm

# The day of surgery for your child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child is scheduled to have surgery. Learn about what to expect on the day
of surgery so that you will be prepared. If your child is old enough to
understand, you can help them prepare as well.

The doctor's office will let you know what time you should arrive on the day
of surgery. This may be early in the morning.

    * If your child is having minor surgery, your child will go home afterward on the same day.
    * If your child is having major surgery, your child will stay in the hospital after the surgery.

## What to Expect Before Surgery

The anesthesia and surgery team will talk with you and your child before
surgery. You may meet with them at an appointment before the day of surgery or
on the same day of surgery. To make sure your child is healthy and ready for
surgery, they will:

    * Check your child's height, weight, and vital signs.
    * Ask about your child's health. If your child is sick, the doctors may wait until your child is better to do the surgery.
    * Find out about any medicines your child takes. Tell them about any prescription, over-the-counter (OTC), and herbal medicines.
    * Do a physical exam on your child.

To get your child ready for surgery, the surgical team will:

    * Ask you to confirm the location and type of your child's surgery. The doctor will mark the site with a special marker.
    * Talk to you about the anesthesia they will give your child.
    * Get any needed lab tests for your child. Your child may have blood drawn or may be asked to give a urine sample.
    * Answer any of your questions. Bring paper and pen to write down notes. Ask about your child's surgery, recovery, and pain management. 

You will sign admission papers and consent forms for your child's surgery and
anesthesia. Bring these items with you:

    * Insurance card
    * Identification card
    * Any medicine in the original bottles
    * X-rays and test results 

## What to Expect on the day of Surgery

Be prepared for the day.

    * Help your child feel safe and secure. Bring a favorite toy, stuffed animal, or blanket. Label items from home with your child's name. Leave valuables at home.
    * The day of surgery will be busy for your child and you. Expect that your child's surgery and recovery will take all day.
    * DO NOT make other plans for the day of surgery.
    * Arrange child care for your other children on that day. 

Arrive on time to the surgery unit.

The surgery team will get your child ready for the operation:

    * Your child may get some liquid medicine that helps your child relax and feel sleepy. 
    * You will wait with your child in a waiting room until the surgeon is ready for your child.
    * The doctors and nurses want to make sure that your child is safe at all times. They will do safety checks. Expect them to ask you: your child's name, birthday, the surgery your child is having, and the body part that is being operated on. 

DO NOT bring food or drink into the pre-op area. Children having surgery are
not eating or drinking. It is better for them not to see food or drinks.

## What to Expect Going into Surgery

Give your child a hug and kiss. Remind your child that you will be there as
soon as you can when they wake up.

If you are staying with your child during the start of anesthesia, you will:

    * Put on special operating room clothing.
    * Go with the nurse and your child into the operating room (OR).
    * Go to the waiting area after your child is asleep.

## What to Expect During Surgery

In the OR, your child will breathe in sleeping medicine (anesthesia).

Usually, after your child is asleep, the doctor will put in an IV. Sometimes
the IV has to be put in before your child is asleep.

You can wait in the waiting area. If you need to leave, give your cell phone
number to the staff so they know how to reach you.

## What to Expect After Surgery in the Recovery Room

Waking up from anesthesia:

    * After surgery, your child goes to the recovery room. There, the doctors and nurses will watch your child closely. As the anesthesia wears off, your child will wake up.
    * You may be allowed to go into the recovery room when your child starts to wake up. If this is allowed, the nurse will come to get you.
    * Know that children waking up from anesthesia can cry a lot and be confused. This is very common.
    * If you would like to hold your child, ask the nurses to help you do this. You will need help with any equipment and how to hold your child comfortably.

Moving out of the recovery room:

    * If your child is going home the same day, you will help them get dressed. Once your child can drink liquids, you can probably go home. Expect your child to be tired. Your child may sleep a lot throughout the rest of the day.
    * If your child is staying in the hospital, your child will be moved to a hospital room. The nurse there will check your child's vital signs and pain level. If your child is having pain, the nurse will give your child pain medicine and any other medicine your child needs. The nurse will also encourage your child to drink if your child is allowed to have liquids. 

## Alternative Names

Same-day surgery - child; Ambulatory surgery - child; Surgical procedure -
child

## References

Boles J. Preparing children and families for procedures or surgery. _Pediatr
Nurs_. 2016;42(3):147-149. PMID: 27468519
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27468519.

Chung DH. Pediatric surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 66.

Neumayer L, Ghalyaie N. Principles of preoperative and operative surgery. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * After Surgery
    * Children's Health
    * Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

