Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002958.htm    
                                Description: Laser surgery uses laser light to remove diseased tissues or treat bleeding blood vessels. Laser surgery may also be used to restore the skin and reduce wrinkles, sunspots, tattoos, or birthmarks.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laser surgery for the skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002958.htm

# Laser surgery for the skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laser surgery uses laser light to remove diseased tissues or treat bleeding
blood vessels. Laser surgery may also be used to restore the skin and reduce
wrinkles, sunspots, tattoos, or birthmarks.

## Description

A laser is a light beam that can be focused on a very small area. The laser
heats the cells in the area being treated until they "burst."

There are several types of lasers. Each laser has specific uses. The color of
the light beam used is directly related to the type of surgery being performed
and the color of the tissue being treated.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Laser surgery can be used to:

    * Close small blood vessels to reduce blood loss
    * Remove warts, moles, sunspots, and tattoos
    * Reduce skin wrinkles, scars, and other skin blemishes
    * Remove dilated blood vessels from the face
    * Remove hair
    * Remove skin cells that could turn into cancer

## Risks

Possible risks of laser surgery include:

    * Cold sores if herpes simplex virus is already present
    * Bleeding
    * Problem not going away
    * Infection
    * Pain
    * Scarring
    * Skin color changes 

Some laser surgery is done when you are asleep and pain free (general
anesthesia). Talk to your health care provider about risks of laser surgery.

## After the Procedure

The success of laser surgery depends on the condition being treated. Talk to
your provider about what you can expect.

Also discuss with your provider, skin care following treatment. You may need
to keep your skin moisturized and out of the sun.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery time depends on the surgery and your overall health. Ask your
provider before treatment how much recovery time you will need. Also ask about
how many treatments you'll need to achieve your goal.

## Alternative Names

Surgery using a laser

## Images

    * ![Laser therapy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9504t.jpg)Laser therapy

## References

DiGiorgio CM, Anderson RR, Sakamoto FH. Understanding lasers, lights, and
tissue interactions. In: Hruza GJ, Tanzi EL, Dover JS, Alam M, eds. _Lasers
and Lights: Procedures in Cosmetic Dermatology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 1.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Cutaneous laser surgery. In: James WD, Berger
TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_.
12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Surgerynew2_thumb.jpg)Surgery _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

