Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000479.htm    
                                Description: Your surgeon will want to make sure you are ready for your surgery. To do this, you will have some checkups and tests before surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tests and visits before surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000479.htm

# Tests and visits before surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your surgeon will want to make sure you are ready for your surgery. To do
this, you will have some checkups and tests before surgery.

Many different people on your surgery team may ask you the same questions
before your surgery. This is because your team needs to gather as much
information as they can to give you the best surgery results. Try to be
patient if you are asked the same questions more than once.

## Pre-op Checkup

Pre-op is the time before your surgery. It means "before operation." During
this time, you will meet with one of your doctors. This may be your surgeon or
primary care doctor:

    * This checkup usually needs to be done within the month before surgery. This gives your doctors time to treat any medical problems you may have before your surgery.
    * During this visit, you will be asked about your health over the years. This is called "taking your medical history." Your doctor will also do a physical exam.
    * If you see your primary care doctor for your pre-op checkup, make sure your hospital or surgeon gets the reports from this visit. 

Some hospitals also ask you to have a phone conversation or meet with an
anesthesia pre-op nurse before surgery to discuss your health.

You may also see your anesthesiologist the week before surgery. This is the
doctor who will give you medicine that will make you sleep and not feel pain
during surgery.

## Visits With Other Doctors

Your surgeon will want to make sure that other health conditions you may have
will not cause problems during your surgery. So you may need to visit:

    * A heart doctor (cardiologist), if you have a history of heart problems or if you smoke heavily, have high blood pressure or diabetes, or are out of shape and cannot walk up a flight of stairs.
    * A diabetes doctor (endocrinologist), if you have diabetes or if your blood sugar test in your pre-op visit was high.
    * A sleep doctor, if you have obstructive sleep apnea, which causes choking or a stop in breathing when you are asleep.
    * A doctor who treats blood disorders (hematologist), if you've had blood clots in the past or you have close relatives who have had blood clots. 
    * Your primary care provider for a review of your health problems, exam, and any tests needed before surgery. 

## Tests Before Surgery

Your surgeon may tell you that you need some tests before surgery. Some tests
are for all surgical patients. Others are done only if you are at risk for
certain health conditions.

Common tests that your surgeon may ask you to have if you have not had them
recently are:

    * Blood tests such as a complete blood count (CBC) and kidney, liver, and blood sugar tests
    * Chest x-ray to check your lungs
    * ECG (electrocardiogram) to check your heart 

Some doctors or surgeons may also ask you to have other tests. This depends
on:

    * Your age and general health
    * Health risks or problems you may have
    * The type of surgery you are having 

These other tests may include:

    * Tests that look at the lining of your bowels or stomach, such as a colonoscopy or upper endoscopy
    * Heart stress test or other heart tests
    * Lung function tests
    * Imaging tests, such as an MRI scan, CT scan, or ultrasound test

Make sure the doctors who do your pre-op tests send the results to your
surgeon. This helps keep your surgery from being delayed.

## Alternative Names

Before surgery - tests; Before surgery - doctor visits

## References

Levett DZ, Edwards M, Grocott M, Mythen M. Preparing the patient for surgery
to improve outcomes. _Best Pract Res Clin Anaesthesiol_. 2016;30(2):145-157.
PMID: 27396803 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27396803.

Sandberg WS, Dmochowski R, Beochamp RD. Safety in the surgical environment.
In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

