Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007497.htm    
                                Description: The quality of the health care you receive depends on many things besides the skill of your surgeon. Many health care providers at a hospital will be directly involved in your care before, during, and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to choose the best hospital for surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007497.htm

# How to choose the best hospital for surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The quality of the health care you receive depends on many things besides the
skill of your surgeon. Many health care providers at a hospital will be
directly involved in your care before, during, and after surgery.

The work of all the hospital staff affects how well the hospital functions.
This affects your safety and the quality of the care you will receive there.

CHOOSING THE BEST HOSPITAL FOR SURGERY

A hospital can offer many things to improve the quality of care you receive.
For instance, find out if your hospital has:

    * A floor or unit that does only the type of surgery you are having. (For instance, for hip replacement surgery, do they have a floor or unit that is used only for joint-replacement surgeries?)
    * Operating rooms that are used only for your type of surgery.
    * Specific guidelines so that everyone who has your type of surgery receives the kind of care they need.
    * Enough nurses. 

It can also be helpful to know how many surgeries like yours have been done at
the hospital you have chosen or are considering for your surgery. People who
have surgery at hospitals that do more of the same type of procedure often do
better.

If you are having a surgery that involves newer techniques, find out how many
of these procedures your hospital has already done.

HIGH-QUALITY MEASURES

Hospitals are asked to report events called "quality measures." These measures
are reports of different things that affect patient care. Some common quality
measures include:

    * Patient injuries, such as falls
    * Patients who receive the wrong medicine or the wrong dosage of a medicine
    * Complications, such as infections, blood clots, and pressure ulcers (bedsores)
    * Readmission and death (mortality) rates 

Hospitals receive scores for their quality. These scores can give you an idea
of how your hospital compares to other hospitals.

Find out if your hospital is accredited by The Joint Commission (a nonprofit
organization that seeks to improve the quality and safety of health care).

Also see if your hospital is rated highly by state agencies or consumer or
other groups. Some places to look for hospital ratings are:

    * State reports -- some states require hospitals to report certain information to them, and some publish reports that compare hospitals in the state.
    * Nonprofit groups in some areas or states work with businesses, doctors, and hospitals to gather information about quality. You can look for this information online.
    * The government gathers and reports information about hospitals. You can find this information online at www.medicare.gov/hospitalcompare/search.html. You can also find information about choosing the best doctor online.
    * Your health insurance company may rate and compare how different hospitals perform on the surgery you are having. Ask your insurance company if it does these ratings. 

## References

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services website. Hospital compare.Â
www.cms.gov/medicare/quality-initiatives-patient-assessment-
instruments/hospitalqualityinits/hospitalcompare.html. Updated October 19,
2016. Accessed December 10, 2018.

The Leapfrog Group website. Choosing the right hospital.
www.leapfroggroup.org/hospital-choice/choosing-right-hospital. Accessed
December 10, 2018.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Health
Facilities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthFacilities_thumb.jpg)Health
Facilities _Read more_

![Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Surgerynew2_thumb.jpg)Surgery _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

