Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007339.htm    
                                Description: Robotic surgery is a method to perform surgery using very small tools attached to a robotic arm. The surgeon controls the robotic arm with a computer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Robotic surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007339.htm

# Robotic surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Robotic surgery is a method to perform surgery using very small tools attached
to a robotic arm. The surgeon controls the robotic arm with a computer.

## Description

You will be given general anesthesia so that you are asleep and pain-free.

The surgeon sits at a computer station and directs the movements of a robot.
Small surgical tools are attached to the robot's arms.

    * The surgeon makes small cuts to insert the instruments into your body. 
    * A thin tube with a camera attached to the end of it (endoscope) allows the surgeon to view enlarged 3-D images of your body as the surgery is taking place.
    * The robot matches the doctor's hand movements to perform the procedure using the tiny instruments.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Robotic surgery is similar to laparoscopic surgery. It can be performed
through smaller cuts than open surgery. The small, precise movements that are
possible with this type of surgery give it some advantages over standard
endoscopic techniques.

The surgeon can make small, precise movements using this method. This can
allow the surgeon to do a procedure through a small cut that once could be
done only with open surgery.

Once the robotic arm is placed in the abdomen, it is easier for the surgeon to
use the surgical tools than with laparoscopic surgery through an endoscope.

The surgeon can also see the area where the surgery is performed more easily.
This method lets the surgeon move in a more comfortable way, as well.

Robotic surgery can take longer to perform. This is due to the amount of time
needed to set up the robot. Also, some hospitals may not have access to this
method. However it is becoming more common.

Robotic surgery may be used for a number of different procedures, including:

    * Coronary artery bypass
    * Cutting away cancer tissue from sensitive parts of the body such as blood vessels, nerves, or important body organs
    * Gallbladder removal
    * Hip replacement
    * Hysterectomy
    * Total or partial kidney removal
    * Kidney transplant
    * Mitral valve repair
    * Pyeloplasty (surgery to correct ureteropelvic junction obstruction)
    * Pyloroplasty
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Radical cystectomy
    * Tubal ligation

Robotic surgery cannot always be used or be the best method of surgery.

## Risks

The risks for any anesthesia and surgery include:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Robotic surgery has as many risks as open and laparoscopic surgery. However,
the risks are different.

## Before the Procedure

You cannot have any food or fluid for 8 hours before the surgery.

You may need to cleanse your bowels with an enema or laxative the day before
surgery for some types of procedures.

Stop taking aspirin, blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin) or Plavix,
anti-inflammatory medicines, vitamins, or other supplements 10 days before the
procedure.

## After the Procedure

You will be taken to a recovery room after the procedure. Depending on the
type of surgery performed, you may have to stay in the hospital overnight or
for a couple of days.

You should be able to walk within a day after the procedure. How soon you are
active will depend on the surgery that was done.

Avoid heavy lifting or straining until your doctor gives you the OK. Your
doctor may tell you not to drive for at least a week.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgical cuts are smaller than with traditional open surgery. Benefits
include:

    * Faster recovery
    * Less pain and bleeding
    * Less risk for infection
    * Shorter hospital stay
    * Smaller scars 

## Alternative Names

Robot-assisted surgery; Robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery; Laparoscopic
surgery with robotic assistance

## References

Dalela D, Borchert A, Sood A, Peabody J. Basics of robotic surgery. In: Smith
JA Jr, Howards SS, Preminger GM, Dmochowski RR, eds. _Hinman's Atlas of
Urologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 7.

Goswami S, Kumar PA, Mets B. Anesthesia for robotically conducted surgery. In:
Miller RD, ed. _Miller's Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 87.

Muller CL, Fried GM. Emerging technology in surgery: informatics, robotics,
electronics. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
15.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Surgerynew2_thumb.jpg)Surgery _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

