Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000433.htm    
                                Description: Even if you have been to many doctors, you know more about your symptoms and health history than anyone else. Your health care providers depend on you to tell them things they need to know.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Getting yourself healthy before surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000433.htm

# Getting yourself healthy before surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Even if you have been to many doctors, you know more about your symptoms and
health history than anyone else. Your health care providers depend on you to
tell them things they need to know.

Being healthy for surgery helps make sure the operation and your recovery go
smoothly. Below are tips and reminders.

## What to Tell Your Doctors Before Surgery

Tell the doctors who will be involved with your surgery about:

    * Any reactions or allergies you have had to medicines, foods, skin tapes, adhesive, iodine or other skin cleansing solutions, or latex
    * Your use of alcohol (drinking more than 1 or 2 drinks a day)
    * Problems you had before with surgery or anesthesia
    * Blood clots or bleeding problems you have had
    * Recent dental problems, such as infections or dental surgery
    * Your use of cigarettes or tobacco 

If you get a cold, the flu, a fever, herpes breakout or another illness in the
few days before surgery, call your surgeon right away. Your surgery may need
to be rescheduled.

## Preoperative Exam

Before your surgery, you will need to have a physical exam.

    * This may be done by your surgeon or your primary care doctor.
    * You may need to visit a specialist who takes care of problems such as diabetes, lung disease, or heart disease.
    * Try to have this checkup at least 2 or 3 weeks before your surgery. That way, your doctors can take care of any medical problems you might have well before your surgery.

Some hospitals will also have you visit with an anesthesia provider at the
hospital or have a phone call from the anesthesia nurse before surgery.

    * You will be asked many questions about your medical history.
    * You may also have a chest x-ray, lab tests, or an electrocardiogram (ECG) ordered by the anesthesia provider, your surgeon, or your primary care provider before surgery.

## Find out how you Should Manage Your Medicines

Bring a list of medicines you are taking with you every time you see a
provider. This includes medicines you bought without a prescription and
medicines you do not take every day. Include information on the dose and how
often you take your medicines.

Also tell your providers about any vitamins, supplements, minerals, or natural
medicines you are taking.

Two weeks before surgery, you may need to stop taking medicines that put you
at risk of bleeding during surgery. Medicines include:

    * NSAIDS such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve)
    * Blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), clopidogrel (Plavix)
    * Vitamin E

Ask your doctor which medicines you should still take on the day of your
surgery.

## Manage Your Medical Problems

If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical problems, your surgeon
may have you see the doctors who treat you for these problems. Your risk for
problems after surgery will be lower if your diabetes and other medical
conditions are under control before surgery.

You may not be able to have dental work for 3 months after certain surgeries
(joint replacement or heart valve surgery). So be sure to schedule your dental
work before your surgery. Ask your surgeon about when to have dental work
before the surgery.

If you smoke, you need to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking will slow
your healing after surgery.

Tell all your providers that you are having surgery. They may suggest a change
in your medicines before your operation.

## Alternative Names

Preoperative care - getting healthy

## References

Neumayer L, Ghalyaie N. Principles of preoperative and operative surgery. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Aebersold M, Gonzalez L. Perioperative care.
In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical
Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY: Pearson;
2016:chap 26.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

