Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002995.htm    
                                Description: A vasectomy is surgery to cut the vas deferens. These are the tubes that carry a sperm from testicles to the urethra. After a vasectomy, sperm cannot move out of the testes. A man who has had a successful    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vasectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002995.htm

# Vasectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A vasectomy is surgery to cut the vas deferens. These are the tubes that carry
a sperm from testicles to the urethra. After a vasectomy, sperm cannot move
out of the testes. A man who has had a successful vasectomy cannot make a
woman pregnant.

![Vasectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200076t.gif)Watch this
video about:Vasectomy

## Description

Vasectomy is most often done in the surgeon's office using local anesthesia.
You will be awake, but not feel any pain.

    * After your scrotum is shaved and cleaned, the surgeon will inject a shot of numbing medicine into the area.
    * The surgeon will make a small cut in the upper part of your scrotum. The vas deferens will then be tied off and cut apart.
    * The wound will be closed with stitches or surgical glue. 

You may have a vasectomy without a surgical cut. This is called a no-scalpel
vasectomy (NSV). For this procedure:

    * The surgeon will find the vas deferens by feeling your scrotum.
    * You will get numbing medicine.
    * The surgeon will then make a tiny hole in the skin of your scrotum and then tie off and cut a part of the vas deferens. 

In a regular vasectomy, a small incision is made on each side of the scrotum.
In a no-scalpel vasectomy, a sharp instrument is used to pierce the skin and
make a single opening. A stitch or surgical glue is used to seal the openings
in both forms of the procedure.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Vasectomy may be recommended for men who are sure they do not want to get a
woman pregnant in the future. A vasectomy makes a man sterile (unable to get a
woman pregnant).

A vasectomy is not recommended as a short-term form of birth control. The
procedure to reverse a vasectomy is a much more complicated operation.

Vasectomy may be a good choice for a man who:

    * Is in a relationship, and both partners agree that they do not want children or additional children. They do not want to use, or cannot use, other forms of birth control.
    * Is in a relationship and a pregnancy would be unsafe for the woman partner because of health problems.
    * Is in a relationship, and one or both partners have genetic disorders that they do not want to pass on.
    * Does not want to be bothered by having to use other forms of birth control during sexual activity.

Vasectomy may not be a good choice for a man who:

    * Is in a relationship with someone who has not decided on whether to have children in the future.
    * Is in an unstable or stressful relationship.
    * Is considering the operation just to please a partner.
    * Wants to have children later by storing sperm or by reversing the vasectomy.
    * Is young and may want to make a different decision in the future.
    * Is single when deciding to have a vasectomy. This includes men who are divorced, widowed, or separated.

## Risks

There is no serious risk to vasectomy. Your semen will be tested in the months
after the operation to make sure it does not contain sperm.

As with any surgical procedure, infection, swelling, or prolonged pain can
occur. Careful following of aftercare instructions reduces these risks
significantly.

Very rarely, the vas deferens can grow back together again. If this happens,
sperm can mix with semen. This would make it possible for you to make a woman
pregnant.

## Before the Procedure

Two weeks before your vasectomy, tell your health care provider about of the
medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription and
vitamins, supplements, and herbs.

You may need to limit or stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and
other medicines that affect blood clotting for 10 days before your surgery.

On the day of your surgery, wear loose, comfortable clothes. Clean your
scrotum area well. Take the medicines your provider told you take.

Bring a scrotal support with you to the surgery.

## After the Procedure

You should be able to return home as soon as you feel well. You can return to
work the next day if you do not do heavy physical work. Most men return to
work within 2 to 3 days. You should be able to return to your normal physical
activities in 3 to 7 days. It is normal to have some swelling and bruising of
the scrotum after the procedure. It should go away within 2 weeks.

You should wear a scrotal support for 3 to 4 days after the procedure. You can
use an ice pack to reduce swelling. Pain medicine, such as acetaminophen
(Tylenol), may help relieve discomfort. You can have sexual intercourse as
soon as you feel ready, most often about a week after the surgery. You must
use some form of birth control to prevent unwanted pregnancy until you know
your semen is free of sperm.

The vasectomy is considered successful only after your doctor has tested the
semen to make sure no more sperm are in it. It is safe to stop using other
forms of birth control at this point.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Vasectomy does not affect a man's ability to have an erection or orgasm, or to
ejaculate semen. A vasectomy does NOT prevent the spread of sexually
transmitted infections (STIs).

A vasectomy does NOT increase your risk of prostate cancer or testicular
disease.

Your sperm count gradually decreases after a vasectomy. After about 3 months,
sperm are no longer present in the semen. You must continue to use birth
control to prevent pregnancy until your semen sample is totally free of sperm.

Most men are satisfied with vasectomy. Most couples enjoy not having to use
birth control.

## Alternative Names

Sterilization surgery - male; No-scalpel vasectomy; NSV; Family planning -
vasectomy; Contraception - vasectomy

## Images

    * ![Before and after vasectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10017t.jpg)Before and after vasectomy
    * ![Sperm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19471t.jpg)Sperm
    * ![Vasectomy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10329t.jpg)Vasectomy - series

## References

Celigoj FA, Costabile RA. Surgery of the scrotum and seminal vesicles. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

Handelsman DJ. Male contraception. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM,
et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 142.

## Review Date 1/23/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vasectomy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasectomy_thumb.jpg)Vasectomy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

