Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002138.htm    
                                Description: Sterilization surgery is a procedure to permanently prevent reproduction.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sterilization surgery - making a decision

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002138.htm

# Sterilization surgery - making a decision

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sterilization surgery is a procedure to permanently prevent reproduction.

    * Surgery in women is called tubal ligation.
    * Surgery in men is called a vasectomy.

People who do not want to have any more children may choose to have
sterilization surgery. However, some may regret the decision later. Men or
women who are younger at the time they have surgery are more likely to change
their minds and want children in the future. Even though either procedure can
sometimes be reversed, both must be considered permanent forms of birth
control.

When deciding if you want to have a sterilization procedure, it is important
to consider:

    * Whether or not you want any more children in the future
    * What you might want to do if something were to happen to your spouse or any of your children

If you answered that you might want to have another child, then sterilization
is not the best option for you.

There are other options for preventing pregnancy that are not permanent. Talk
to your health care provider about all the options available to you before
making the decision to have a sterilization procedure.

## Alternative Names

Deciding to have sterilization surgery

## Images

    * ![Hysterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17073t.jpg)Hysterectomy
    * ![Tubal ligation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17136t.jpg)Tubal ligation
    * ![Tubal ligation - uterine anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7192t.jpg)Tubal ligation - Series

## References

Isley MM, Katz VL. Postpartum care and long-term health considerations. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In:Â Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tubal Ligation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TubalLigation_thumb.jpg)Tubal
Ligation _Read more_

![Vasectomy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasectomy_thumb.jpg)Vasectomy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

