Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003932.htm    
                                Description: Polysomnography is a sleep study. This test records certain body functions as you sleep, or try to sleep. Polysomnography is used to diagnose sleep disorders.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polysomnography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003932.htm

# Polysomnography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polysomnography is a sleep study. This test records certain body functions as
you sleep, or try to sleep. Polysomnography is used to diagnose sleep
disorders.

## How the Test is Performed

There are two stages of sleep:

    * Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep.Â Most dreaming occurs during REM sleep. Under normal circumstances, your muscles, except for your eyes and breathing muscles, do not move during this stage of sleep.
    * Non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. NREM has three stages that can be detected by brain waves (EEG). 

REM sleep alternates with NREM sleep about every 90 minutes. A person with
normal sleep most often has four to five cycles of REM and NREM sleep during a
night.

A sleep study measures your sleep cycles and stages by recording:

    * Air flow in and out of your lungs as you breathe
    * The level of oxygen in your blood
    * Body position
    * Brain waves (EEG)
    * Breathing effort and rate
    * Electrical activity of muscles
    * Eye movement
    * Heart rate 

Polysomnography can be done either at a sleep center or in your home.

AT A SLEEP CENTER

Full sleep studies are most often done at a special sleep center.

    * You will be asked to arrive about 2 hours before bedtime.
    * You will sleep in a bed at the center. Many sleep centers have comfortable bedrooms, similar to a hotel.
    * The test is most often done at night so that your normal sleep patterns can be studied. If you are a night shift worker, many centers can perform the test during your normal sleep hours.
    * Your health care provider will place electrodes on your chin, scalp, and the outer edge of your eyelids. You will have monitors to record your heart rate and breathing attached to your chest. These will remain in place while you sleep.
    * The electrodes record signals while you are awake (with your eyes closed) and during sleep. The test measures the amount of time it takes you to fall asleep and how long it takes you to enter REM sleep.
    * A specially-trained provider will observe you while you sleep and note any changes in your breathing or heart rate.
    * The test will record the number of times that you either stop breathing or almost stop breathing.
    * There are also monitors to record your movements during sleep. Sometimes a video camera records your movements during sleep. 

AT HOME

You may be able to use a sleep study device in your home instead of at a sleep
center to help diagnose sleep apnea. You either pick up the device at a sleep
center or a trained therapist comes to your home to set it up.

Home testing may be used when:

    * You are under the care of a sleep specialist.
    * Your sleep doctor thinks you have obstructive sleep apnea.
    * You do not have other sleep disorders.
    * You do not have other serious health problems, such as heart disease or lung disease.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Whether the test is at a sleep study center or at home, you prepare the same
way. Unless directed to do so by your doctor, do not take any sleep medicine
and do not drink alcohol or caffeinated beverages before the test. They can
interfere with your sleep.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test helps diagnose possible sleep disorders, including obstructive sleep
apnea (OSA). Your provider may think you have OSA because you have these
symptoms:

    * Daytime sleepiness (falling asleep during the day) 
    * Loud snoring 
    * Periods of holding your breath while you sleep, followed by gasps or snorts 
    * Restless sleep 

Polysomnography can also diagnose other sleep disorders:

    * Narcolepsy
    * Periodic limb movements disorder (movingÂ your legs often during sleep)
    * REM behavior disorder (physically "acting out"Â your dreams during sleep)

## Normal Results

A sleep study tracks:

    * How often you stop breathing for at least 10 seconds (called apnea)
    * How often your breathing is partly blocked for 10 seconds (called hypopnea)
    * Your brain waves and muscle movements during sleep

Most people have short periods during sleep where their breathing stops or is
partly blocked. The Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI) is the number of apnea or
hypopnea measured during a sleep study.Â AHI results are used to diagnose
obstructive sleep apnea.

Normal test result show:

    * Few or no episodes of stopping breathing.Â An AHI of less than 5 is considered normal.
    * Normal patterns of brain waves and muscle movements during sleep.  

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In adults, test results above 5 may mean you have sleep apnea:

    * 5Â to 15 is mild sleep apnea
    * 15Â to 30 is moderate sleep apnea
    * More than 30 is severe sleep apnea 

To make a diagnosis and decide on treatment, the sleep specialist must also
look at:

    * Other findings from the sleep study
    * Your medical history and sleep-related complaints
    * Your physical exam 

## Alternative Names

Sleep study; Polysomnogram; Rapid eye movement studies; Split night
polysomnography; PSG; OSA - sleep study; Obstructive sleep apnea - sleep
study; Sleep apnea - sleep study

## Images

    * ![Sleep studies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8899t.jpg)Sleep studies

## References

Chokdroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Mansukhani MP, Kolla BP, St. Louis EK, Morgenthaler TI. Sleep disorders. In:
Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:711-726.

Qaseem A, Holty JE, Owens DK, et al. Management of obstructive sleep apnea in
adults: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians.
_Ann Intern Med_. 2013;159(7):471-483. PMID: 24061345
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24061345.

Vaughn BV. Disorders of sleep. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 405.

Wakefield TL, Lam DJ, Ishman SL. Sleep apnea and sleep disorders. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 1/15/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

