Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003208.htm    
                                Description: Drowsiness refers to feeling abnormally sleepy during the day. People who are drowsy may fall asleep in inappropriate situations or at inappropriate times.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drowsiness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003208.htm

# Drowsiness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drowsiness refers to feeling abnormally sleepy during the day. People who are
drowsy may fall asleep in inappropriate situations or at inappropriate times.

## Considerations

Excessive daytime sleepiness (without a known cause) may be a sign of a sleep
disorder.

Depression, anxiety, stress, and boredom can all contribute to excessive
sleepiness. However, these conditions more often cause fatigue and apathy.

## Causes

Drowsiness may be due to the following:

    * Long-term (chronic) pain
    * Diabetes
    * Having to work long hours or different shifts (nights, weekends)
    * Long-term insomnia and other problems falling or staying asleep
    * Changes in blood sodium levels (hyponatremia or hypernatremia)
    * Medicines (tranquilizers, sleeping pills, antihistamines, certain painkillers, some psychiatric drugs)
    * Not sleeping long enough
    * Sleep disorders (such as sleep apnea and narcolepsy)
    * Too much calcium in your blood (hypercalcemia)
    * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) 

## Home Care

You can relieve drowsiness by treating the cause of the problem. First,
determine whether your drowsiness is due to depression, anxiety, boredom, or
stress. If you are not sure, talk with your health care provider.

For drowsiness due to medicines, talk to your provider about switching or
stopping your medicines. But, DO NOT stop taking or change your medicine
without first talking to your provider.

Do not drive when drowsy.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you to determine the cause of your drowsiness. You
will be asked about your sleep patterns and health. Questions may include:

    * How well do you sleep?
    * How much do you sleep?
    * Do you snore?
    * Do you fall asleep during the day when you do not plan to nap (such as when watching TV or reading)? If so, do you awake feeling refreshed? How often does this happen?
    * Are you depressed, anxious, stressed, or bored?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * What have you done to try to relieve the drowsiness? How well did it work?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests (such as a CBC and blood differential, blood sugar level, electrolytes, and thyroid hormone levels)
    * CT scan of the head
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * Sleep studies
    * Urine tests (such as a urinalysis) 

Treatment depends on the cause of your drowsiness.

## Alternative Names

Sleepiness - during the day; Hypersomnia; Somnolence

## References

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Hirshkowitz M, Sharafkhaneh A. Evaluating sleepiness. In: Kryger M, Roth T,
Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 169.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

