Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000800.htm    
                                Description: Sleep disorders are problems with sleeping. These include trouble falling or staying asleep, falling asleep at the wrong times, too much sleep, and abnormal behaviors during sleep.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sleep disorders - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000800.htm

# Sleep disorders - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sleep disorders are problems with sleeping. These include trouble falling or
staying asleep, falling asleep at the wrong times, too much sleep, and
abnormal behaviors during sleep.

## Causes

There are more than 100 different sleeping and waking disorders. They can be
grouped into four main categories:

    * Problems falling and staying asleep (insomnia)
    * Problems staying awake (excessive daytime sleepiness)
    * Problems sticking to a regular sleep schedule (sleep rhythm problem)
    * Unusual behaviors during sleep (sleep-disruptive behaviors) 

PROBLEMS FALLING AND STAYING ASLEEP

Insomnia includes trouble falling asleep or staying asleep. Episodes may come
and go, last up to 3 weeks (be short-term), or be long-lasting (chronic).

PROBLEMS STAYING AWAKE

Hypersomnia is a condition in which people have excessive daytime sleepiness.
This means they feel tired during the day. Hypersomnia can also include
situations in which a person needs to sleep a lot. This may be due to other
medical conditions, but can also be due to a problem in the brain. Causes of
this problem include:

    * Medical conditions, such as fibromyalgia and low thyroid function
    * Mononucleosis or other viral illnesses
    * Narcolepsy and other sleep disorders
    * Obesity, especially if it causes obstructive sleep apnea

When no cause for the sleepiness can be found, it is called idiopathic
hypersomnia.

PROBLEMS STICKING TO A REGULAR SLEEP SCHEDULE

Problems may also occur when you do not stick to a regular sleep and wake
schedule. This occurs when people travel between time zones. It can also occur
with shift workers who are on changing schedules, especially nighttime
workers.

Disorders that involve a disrupted sleep schedule include:

    * Irregular sleep-wake syndrome 
    * Jet lag syndrome
    * Shift work sleep disorder
    * Delayed sleep phase, as in teenagers who go to sleep very late at night and then sleep until noon
    * Advanced sleep phase, as in older adults who go to sleep early in the evening and wake up very early 
![Irregular sleep](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17218.jpg)

SLEEP-DISRUPTIVE BEHAVIORS

Abnormal behaviors during sleep are called parasomnias. They are fairly common
in children and include:

    * Sleep terrors
    * Sleepwalking
    * REM sleep-behavior disorder (a person moves during REM sleep and may act out dreams) 

## Alternative Names

Insomnia; Narcolepsy; Hypersomina; Daytime sleepiness; Sleep rhythm; Sleep
disruptive behaviors; Jet lag

## Images

    * ![Irregular sleep](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17218t.jpg)Irregular sleep
    * ![Sleep patterns in the young and aged](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8692t.jpg)Sleep patterns in the young and aged

## References

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Sateia MJ, Thorpy MJ. Classification of sleep disorders. In: Kryger M, Roth T,
Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

## Review Date 1/15/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

