Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000809.htm    
                                Description:  &#10; Night terrors (sleep terrors) are a sleep disorder in which a person quickly wakes from sleep in a terrified state.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Night terrors in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000809.htm

# Night terrors in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Night terrors (sleep terrors) are a sleep disorder in which a person quickly
wakes from sleep in a terrified state.

## Causes

The cause is unknown, but night terrors may be triggered by:

    * Fever
    * Lack of sleep
    * Periods of emotional tension, stress, or conflict 

Night terrors are most common in children ages 3 through 7, and much less
common after that. Night terrors may run in families. They can occur in
adults, especially when there is emotional tension or alcohol use.

## Symptoms

Night terrors are most common during the first third of the night, often
between midnight and 2 a.m.

    * Children often scream and are very frightened and confused. They thrash around violently and are often not aware of their surroundings.
    * The childÂ may not be ableÂ to respond to being talked to, comforted, or awakened.
    * The child may be sweating, breathing very fast (hyperventilating), have a fast heart rate, and widened (dilated) pupils.
    * The spell may last 10Â to 20 minutes, then the child goes back to sleep.

Most children are unable to explain what happened the next morning. They often
have no memory of the event when they wake up the next day.

Children with night terrors may also sleep walk.

In contrast, nightmares are more common in the early morning. They may occur
after someone watches frightening movies or TV shows, or has an emotional
experience. A person may remember the details of a dreamÂ after waking up and
will not be disoriented after the episode.

## Exams and Tests

In many cases, no further examination or testing is needed. If night terror
episodes occur often, the child should be evaluated by a health care provider.
If needed, tests such as a sleep study, can be done to rule out a sleep
disorder.

## Treatment

In many cases, a child who has a night terror only needs to be comforted.

Reducing stress or using coping mechanisms may reduce night terrors. Talk
therapy or counseling may be needed in some cases.

MedicinesÂ prescribed for use at bedtime will often reduce night terrors, but
are rarely used to treat this disorder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children outgrow night terrors. Episodes usually decrease after age 10.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * Night terrors occur often
    * They disrupt sleep on a regular basis
    * Other symptoms occur with the night terror
    * The night terror causes, or almost causes, injuries

## Prevention

Minimizing stress or using coping mechanisms may reduce night terrors.

## Alternative Names

Pavor nocturnus; Sleep terror disorder

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Nightmares and night terrors in
preschoolers. www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-
stages/preschool/Pages/Nightmares-and-Night-Terrors.aspx. Updated October 18,
2018. Accessed April 22, 2019.

Avidan AY. Non-rapid eye movement parasomnias: clinical spectrum, diagnostic
features, and management. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles
and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
102.

Owens JA. Sleep medicine. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 31.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

