Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003209.htm    
                                Description: A nightmare is a bad dream that brings out strong feelings of fear, terror, distress, or anxiety.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nightmares

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003209.htm

# Nightmares

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nightmare is a bad dream that brings out strong feelings of fear, terror,
distress, or anxiety.

## Causes

Nightmares usually begin before age 10 and are most often considered a normal
part of childhood. They tend to be more common in girls than boys. Nightmares
may be triggered by seemingly routine events, such as starting at a new
school, taking a trip, or a mild illness in a parent.

Nightmares may continue into adulthood. They can be one way our brain deals
with the stresses and fears of everyday life. One or more nightmares over a
short period of time may be caused by:

    * A major life event, such as the loss of a loved one or a traumatic event
    * Increased stress at home or work 

Nightmares may also be triggered by:

    * A new drug prescribed by your health care provider
    * Abrupt alcohol withdrawal
    * Drinking too much alcohol
    * Eating just before going to bed
    * Illegal street drugs
    * Illness with a fever
    * Over-the-counter sleep aids and medicines
    * Stopping certain drugs, such as sleeping pills or opioid pain pills 

Repeated nightmares may also be a sign of:

    * Breathing disorder in sleep (sleep apnea)
    * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which can occur after you have seen or experienced a traumatic event that involved the threat of injury or death
    * More severe anxiety disorders or depression
    * Sleep disorder (for example, narcolepsy or sleep terror disorder) 

## Home Care

Stress is a normal part of life. In small amounts, stress is good. It can
motivate you and help you get more done. But too much stress can be harmful.

If you are under stress, ask for support from friends and relatives. Talking
about what is on your mind can help.

Other tips include:

    * Follow a regular fitness routine, with aerobic exercise, if possible. You will find that you will be able to fall asleep faster, sleep more deeply, and wake up feeling more refreshed.
    * Limit caffeine and alcohol.
    * Make more time for your personal interests and hobbies.
    * Try relaxation techniques, such as guided imagery, listening to music, doing yoga, or meditating. With some practice, these techniques could help you reduce stress.
    * Listen to your body when it tells you to slow down or take a break. 

Practice good sleep habits. Go to bed at the same time each night and wake up
at the same time each morning. Avoid long-term use of tranquilizers, as well
as caffeine and other stimulants.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your provider if your nightmares started shortly after you began taking a
new medicine. They will tell you if you should stop taking that medicine. DO
NOT stop taking it before talking to your provider.

For nightmares caused by street drugs or regular alcohol use, ask for advice
from your provider on the safest and most effective way to quit.

Also contact your provider if:

    * You have nightmares more than once a week.
    * Nightmares stop you from getting a good night's rest, or from keeping up with your daily activities for a long period.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask questions about the nightmares you are
having. Next steps may include:

    * Certain tests
    * Changes in your medicines
    * New medicines to help with some of your symptoms
    * Referral to a mental health provider 

## References

American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013.

Arnulf I, Carr M. Nightmares and dream disturbances. In: Kryger M, Roth T,
Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 104.

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Pigeon WR, Mellman TA. Dreams and nightmares in posttraumatic stress disorder.
In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 55.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

