Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000803.htm    
                                Description: Idiopathic hypersomnia (IH) is a sleep disorder in which a person is excessively sleepy (hypersomnia) during the day and has great difficulty being awakened from sleep. Idiopathic means there is not a    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Idiopathic hypersomnia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000803.htm

# Idiopathic hypersomnia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Idiopathic hypersomnia (IH) is a sleep disorder in which a person is
excessively sleepy (hypersomnia) during the day and has great difficulty being
awakened from sleep. Idiopathic means there is not a clear cause.

## Causes

IH is similar to narcolepsy in that you are extremely sleepy. It is different
from narcolepsy because IH doesn't usually involve suddenly falling asleep
(sleep attacks) or losing muscle control due to strong emotions (cataplexy).
Also, unlike narcolepsy, naps in IH are usually not refreshing.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often develop slowly during the teens or young adulthood. They
include:

    * Daytime naps that do not relieve drowsiness
    * Difficulty waking from a long sleep -- may feel confused or disoriented (''sleep drunkenness'')
    * Increased need for sleep during the day -- even while at work, or during a meal or conversation
    * Increased sleep time -- up to 14Â to 18 hours a day

Other symptoms may include:

    * Anxiety
    * Feeling irritated
    * Loss of appetite
    * Low energy
    * Restlessness
    * Slow thinking or speech
    * Trouble remembering

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your sleep history. The usual approach
is to consider other possible causes of excessive daytime sleepiness.

Other sleep disorders that may cause daytime sleepiness include:

    * Narcolepsy
    * Obstructive sleep apnea
    * Restless leg syndrome

Other causes of excessive sleepiness include:

    * Depression
    * Certain medicines
    * Drug and alcohol use
    * Low thyroid function
    * Previous head injury 

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Multiple-sleep latency test (a test to see how long it takes you to fall asleep during a daytime nap)
    * Sleep study (polysomnography, to identify other sleep disorders) 

A mental health evaluation for depression may also be done.

## Treatment

Your provider will likely prescribe stimulant medicines such as amphetamine,
methylphenidate, or modafinil. These drugs may not work as well for this
condition as they do for narcolepsy.

Lifestyle changes that can help ease symptoms and prevent injury include:

    * Avoid alcohol and medicines that can make the condition worse
    * Avoid operating motor vehicles or using dangerous equipment
    * Avoid working at night or social activities that delay your bedtime 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Discuss your condition with your provider if you have repeated episodes of
daytime sleepiness. They may be due to a medical problem that needs further
testing.

## Alternative Names

Hypersomnia - idiopathic; Drowsiness - idiopathic; Somnolence - idiopathic

## Images

    * ![Sleep patterns in the young and aged](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8692t.jpg)Sleep patterns in the young and aged

## References

Billiard M, Sonka K. Idiopathic hypersomnia. _Sleep Med Rev._ 2016;29:23-33.
PMID: 26599679 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26599679.

Dauvilliers Y, Bassetti CL. Idiopathic hypersomnia. In: Kryger M, Roth T,
Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 91.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

