Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000064.htm    
                                Description: Sleep disorders in older adults involve any disrupted sleep pattern. This can include problems falling or staying asleep, too much sleep, or abnormal behaviors with sleep.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sleep disorders in older adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000064.htm

# Sleep disorders in older adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sleep disorders in older adults involve any disrupted sleep pattern. This can
include problems falling or staying asleep, too much sleep, or abnormal
behaviors with sleep.

## Causes

Sleep problems are common in older adults. The amount of sleep needed stays
constant throughout the adult years. Doctors recommend that adults get 7 to 8
hours of sleep each night. In older adults, sleep is less deep and choppier
than sleep in younger people.

![Sleep patterns in the young and
aged](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8692.jpg)

A healthy 70-year-old may wake up several times during the night without it
being due to disease.

Sleep disturbances in older adults may be due to any of the following:

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Alcohol
    * Changes in the body's natural internal clock, causing some people to fall asleep earlier in the evening
    * Long-term (chronic) disease, such as heart failure
    * Certain medicines, herbs, supplements, and recreational drugs
    * Depression (depression is a common cause of sleep problems in people of all ages)
    * Brain and nervous system conditions
    * Not being very active
    * Pain caused by diseases such as arthritis
    * Stimulants such as caffeine and nicotine
    * Frequent urination at night

## Symptoms

Symptoms that may occur include:

    * Difficulty falling asleep
    * Difficulty telling the difference between night and day
    * Early morning awakening
    * Waking up often during the night 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take a history and perform a physical exam to
look for medical causes and determine which type of sleep disorder is causing
the problem.

## Treatment

Relieving chronic pain and controlling medical conditions such as frequent
urination may improve sleep in some people. Treating depression can also
improve sleep.

Sleeping in a quiet room that isn't too hot or too cold and having a relaxing
bedtime routine may help improve symptoms. Other ways to promote sleep include
these healthy lifestyle tips:

    * Avoid large meals shortly before bedtime.
    * Avoid stimulants such as caffeine after mid-afternoon.
    * Get regular exercise early in the day.
    * Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day.
    * DO NOT take naps.
    * Use the bed only for sleep or sexual activity.

If you can't fall asleep after 20 minutes, get out of bed and do a quiet
activity such as reading or listening to music.

Avoid using sleeping pills to help you sleep, if possible. They can lead to
dependence and can make sleep problems worse over time if you don't use them
the right way. Your provider should assess your risks of daytime sleepiness,
mental (cognitive) side effects, and falls before you begin taking sleep
medicines.

    * If you think you need sleeping pills, talk with your provider about which pills are safe for you when taken properly. Certain sleeping pills should not be taken on a long-term basis.
    * DO NOT drink alcohol at any time when you are using sleeping pills. Alcohol can make the side effects of all sleeping pills worse.

WARNING: The FDA has asked manufacturers of certain sleep medicines to put
stronger warning labels on their products so that consumers are more aware of
the potential risks. Possible risks while taking such medicines include severe
allergic reactions and dangerous sleep-related behaviors, including sleep-
driving. Ask your provider about these risks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For most people, sleep improves with treatment. However, others may continue
to have sleep disruptions.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications are:

    * Alcohol use
    * Drug abuse
    * Increased risk for falls (due to frequent urination at night)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if a lack of sleep or too much
sleep is interfering with daily living.

## Prevention

Getting regular exercise and avoiding as many causes of sleep disruption as
possible and adequate exposure to natural light may help control sleep
problems.

## Alternative Names

Insomnia - older adults

## Images

    * ![Sleep patterns in the young and aged](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8692t.jpg)Sleep patterns in the young and aged

## References

Bliwise DL, Scullin MK. Normal aging. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

National Institute on Aging website. A good night's sleep.
www.nia.nih.gov/health/good-nights-sleep#insomnia. Updated May 1, 2016.
Accessed September 5, 2018.

Shochat T, Ancoli-Israel S. Insomnia in older adults. In: Kryger M, Roth T,
Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 153.

Sterniczuk R, Rusak B. Sleep in relation to aging, frailty, and cognition. In:
Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric
Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 108.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

