Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000872.htm    
                                Description: Starting around puberty, kids start getting tired later at night. While it might seem like they need less sleep, in fact, teens need about 9 hours of sleep at night. Unfortunately, most teens do not get    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Teenagers and sleep

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000872.htm

# Teenagers and sleep

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Starting around puberty, kids start getting tired later at night. While it
might seem like they need less sleep, in fact, teens need about 9 hours of
sleep at night. Unfortunately, most teens do not get the sleep they need.

## What Makes it Hard for Teens to Sleep?

Several factors make it hard for teens to get the sleep they need:

    *  **Schedule.** The average teen gets tired around 11 p.m. and has to get up between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. to get to school on time. This makes it impossible to get 9 hours of sleep. Some high schools have changed their hours to start later. Students' grades and athletic performance at these schools improved as a result. Just like their parents, many teens are juggling busy schedules. Weeknight school and social activities cut into teens' quality sleep time. They get home later and have a harder time winding down.
    *  **Homework.** The push to succeed can backfire when kids sacrifice sleep to do homework. After a night of too little sleep, your teen may not be able to focus in class or absorb new material. Teens need both work and rest to keep their minds sharp.
    *  **Texting.** Phones make poor bedfellows, particularly when they go off in the middle of the night. Teens may think every text message has to be answered right away, no matter how late. Even early evening texts can disrupt sleep. Hearing constant text alerts can make it impossible to wind down and relax into sleep. 

## Sleep and Teen Health

Like adults, teens who do not get enough sleep are at risk for a number of
problems in school and with their health, including:

    * Depression and low self-esteem
    * Sleepiness and trouble concentrating
    * Decline in school performance and grades
    * Moodiness and trouble getting along with family and friends
    * Greater risk of car accidents
    * Tendency to overeat and gain weight 

## What Parents can do

Teach your teen ways to get a good night's sleep. Then be a good role model
and practice what you preach.

    *  **Make rules about bedtime.** Going to bed at the same time each night can make it easier for your teen to wind down and drift off. Set a bedtime for your teen, and yourself, and make sure you stick with it.
    *  **Limit nighttime activities.** Keep an eye on the number of nights your teen stays at school late or goes out with friends. Consider limiting the number of weeknights your child stays out past dinner.
    *  **Offer homework support.** Talk to teens about their class load and homework. If they have a heavy semester, help them schedule homework time and limit other activities. Make sure your kids have a good, quiet place to study.
    *  **Set technology boundaries.** Talk to your teen about text messages. Ask how they feel if they do not respond to a text right away, then set a time when texting has to stop. You might make a rule that no devices are allowed in the bedroom after a certain hour.
    *  **Promote relaxing activities.** In the hour or so before bedtime, encourage your child to do something relaxing. This might mean reading a book or taking a warm shower. Encourage your teen to explore ways to unwind so sleep can come. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if your teen is not sleeping well and it
interferes with his or her health or ability to do daily activities.

## References

Adams SK, Kisler TS. Sleep quality as a mediator between technology-related
sleep quality, depression, and anxiety. _Cyberpsychol Behav Soc Netw_.
2013;16(1):25-30. PMID: 23320870 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23320870.

Baker FC, O'Brien LM. Sex differences and menstrual-related changes in sleep
and circadian rhythms. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and
Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
155.

Harris KR. Adolescent health. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1147-1150.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Sleep Disorders
    * Teen Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

