Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000719.htm    
                                Description: Jet lag is a sleep disorder caused by traveling across different time zones. Jet lag occurs when your body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Jet lag prevention

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000719.htm

# Jet lag prevention

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Jet lag is a sleep disorder caused by traveling across different time zones.
Jet lag occurs when your body's biological clock is not set with the time zone
you are in.

## Causes

Your body follows a 24-hour internal clock called a circadian rhythm. It tells
your body when to go to sleep and when to wake up. Cues from your environment,
such as when the sun rises and sets, help set this internal clock.

When you pass through different time zones, it can take your body a few days
to adjust to the different time.

## How Does Jet Lag Feel?

You may feel like it is time to go to bed several hours before bedtime. The
more time zones you pass through, the worse your jet lag can be. Also,
traveling east can be harder to adjust to because you lose time.

Symptoms of jet lag include:

    * Trouble falling asleep or waking up
    * Tiredness during the day
    * Confusion
    * General feeling of not being well
    * Headache
    * Irritability
    * Stomach upset
    * Sore muscles 

## Tips for Prevention

Before your trip:

    * Get plenty of rest, eat healthy foods, and get some exercise.
    * Consider going to bed earlier for a couple of nights before leaving if you are traveling east. Go to bed later for a couple of nights if you are traveling west. This will help reset your internal clock before you travel. 

While in flight:

    * Do not sleep unless it matches the bedtime of your destination. While awake, get up and walk around a few times.
    * During stopovers, make yourself comfortable and get some rest.
    * Drink plenty of water, but avoid heavy meals, alcohol, and caffeine. 

Melatonin, a hormone supplement, may help decrease jet lag. If you will be in
flight during the bedtime of your destination, take some melatonin (3 to 5
milligrams) during that time and try to sleep. Then try taking melatonin
several hours before bedtime for several days once you arrive.

When you arrive:

    * For short trips, try to eat and sleep at your usual times, if possible, while at your destination.
    * For longer trips, before you leave, try to adapt to the time schedule of your destination. Set your watch to the new time as you begin the trip.
    * It takes a day to adjust to one to two time zones. So if you travel over three time zones, it will take about two days for your body to adapt.
    * Stick with your regular exercise routine while you're away. Avoid exercising late in the evening, because it can keep you awake.
    * If you are traveling for an important event or meeting, try to get to your destination early. This can help your body adjust ahead of time so you are at your best while at the event.
    * Try not to make any important decisions the first day.
    * Once you arrive, spend time in the sun. This can help reset your internal clock. 

## Alternative Names

Circadian rhythm sleep disturbances; Jet lag disorder

## References

Drake CL, Wright KP. Shift work, shift-work disorder, and jet lag. In: Kryger
M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 75.

Markwell P, McLellan SLF. Jet lag. In: Keystone JS, Kozarsky PE, Connor BA,
Nothdurft HD, Mendelson M, Leder K, eds. _Travel Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Sleep Disorders
    * Traveler's Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

