Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000806.htm    
                                Description: Irregular sleep-wake syndrome is sleeping without any real schedule.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Irregular sleep-wake syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000806.htm

# Irregular sleep-wake syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Irregular sleep-wake syndrome is sleeping without any real schedule.

## Causes

This disorder is very rare. It usually occurs in people with a brain function
problem who also don't have a regular routine during the day. The amount of
total sleep time is normal, but the body clock loses its normal circadian
cycle.

People with changing work shifts and travelers who often change time zones may
also have these symptoms. These people have a different condition, such as
shift work sleep disorder or jet lag syndrome.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Sleeping or napping more than usual during the day
    * Trouble falling asleep and staying asleep at night
    * Waking up often during the night

## Exams and Tests

A person must have at least 3 abnormal sleep-wake episodes during a 24-hour
period to be diagnosed with this problem. The time between episodes is usually
1 to 4 hours.

If the diagnosis is not clear, the health care provider may prescribe a device
called an actigraph. The device looks like a wristwatch, and it can tell when
a person is sleeping or awake.

Your provider may ask you to keep a sleep diary. This is a record of what
times you go to bed and wake up. The diary allows the provider to assess your
sleep-wake cycle patterns.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to help the person return to a normal sleep-wake
cycle. This may involve:

    * Setting up a regular daytime schedule of activities and mealtimes.
    * Not staying in bed during the day.
    * Using bright light therapy in the morning and taking melatonin at bedtime. (In older people, especially those with dementia, sedatives such as melatonin are not advised.)
    * Making sure the room is dark and quiet at night.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is often good with treatment. But some people continue to have
this disorder, even with treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most people have sleep disturbances on occasion. If this type of irregular
sleep-wake pattern occurs regularly and without cause, see your provider.

## Alternative Names

Sleep-wake syndrome - irregular; Circadian rhythm sleep disorder - irregular
sleep-wake type

## Images

    * ![Irregular sleep](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17218t.jpg)Irregular sleep

## References

Abbott SM, Reid KJ, Zee PC. Circadian disorders of the sleep-wake cycle. In:
Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 40.

Auger RR, Burgess HJ, Emens JS, Deriy LV, Thomas SM, Sharkey KM. Clinical
practice guideline for the treatment of intrinsic circadian rhythm sleep-wake
disorders: advanced sleep-wake phase disorder (ASWPD), delayed sleep-wake
phase disorder (DSWPD), non-24-hour sleep-wake rhythm disorder (N24SWD), and
irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder (ISWRD). An update for 2015: an American
Academy of Sleep Medicine clinical practice guideline. _J Clin Sleep Med_.
2015:11(10):1199-1236. PMID: 26414986 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26414986.

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

## Review Date 4/26/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

