Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lupus.html    
                                Description: Lupus (or SLE) is a complex disease. But the good news is you can get help and fight lupus. Learn more about lupus symptoms and how to cope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Lupus

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lupus.html

#  Lupus

Also called: Discoid lupus, SLE, Subacute cutaneous lupus, Systemic lupus
erythematosus

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Men
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is lupus?

Lupus is an autoimmune disease. This means that your immune system attacks
healthy cells and tissues by mistake. This can damage many parts of the body,
including the joints, skin, kidneys, heart, lungs, blood vessels, and brain.

There are several kinds of lupus

    * Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is the most common type. It can be mild or severe and can affect many parts of the body.
    * Discoid lupus causes a red rash that doesn't go away
    * Subacute cutaneous lupus causes sores after being out in the sun
    * Drug-induced lupus is caused by certain medicines. It usually goes away when you stop taking the medicine.
    * Neonatal lupus, which is rare, affects newborns. It is probably caused by certain antibodies from the mother.

### What causes lupus?

The cause of lupus is unknown.

### Who is at risk for lupus?

Anyone can get lupus, but women are most at risk. Lupus is two to three times
more common in African American women than in Caucasian women. It's also more
common in Hispanic, Asian, and Native American women. African American and
Hispanic women are more likely to have severe forms of lupus.

### What are the symptoms of lupus?

Lupus can have many symptoms, and they differ from person to person. Some of
the more common ones are

    * Pain or swelling in joints
    * Muscle pain
    * Fever with no known cause
    * Red rashes, most often on the face (also called the "butterfly rash")
    * Chest pain when taking a deep breath
    * Hair loss
    * Pale or purple fingers or toes
    * Sensitivity to the sun
    * Swelling in legs or around eyes
    * Mouth ulcers
    * Swollen glands
    * Feeling very tired

Symptoms may come and go. When you are having symptoms, it is called a flare.
Flares can range from mild to severe. New symptoms may appear at any time.

### How is lupus diagnosed?

There is no specific test for lupus, and it's often mistaken for other
diseases. So it may take months or years for a doctor to diagnose it. Your
doctor may use many tools to make a diagnosis:

    * Medical history
    * Complete exam
    * Blood tests
    * Skin biopsy (looking at skin samples under a microscope)
    * Kidney biopsy (looking at tissue from your kidney under a microscope)

### What are the treatments for lupus?

There is no cure for lupus, but medicines and lifestyle changes can help
control it.

People with lupus often need to see different doctors. You will have a primary
care doctor and a rheumatologist (a doctor who specializes in the diseases of
joints and muscles). Which other specialists you see depends on how lupus
affects your body. For example, if lupus damages your heart or blood vessels,
you would see a cardiologist.

Your primary care doctor should coordinate care between your different health
care providers and treat other problems as they come up. Your doctor will
develop a treatment plan to fit your needs. You and your doctor should review
the plan often to be sure it is working. You should report new symptoms to
your doctor right away so that your treatment plan can be changed if needed.

The goals of the treatment plan are to

    * Prevent flares
    * Treat flares when they occur
    * Reduce organ damage and other problems

Treatments may include drugs to

    * Reduce swelling and pain
    * Prevent or reduce flares
    * Help the immune system
    * Reduce or prevent damage to joints
    * Balance the hormones

Besides taking medicines for lupus, you may need to take medicines for
problems that are related to lupus such as high cholesterol, high blood
pressure, or infection.

Alternative treatments are those that are not part of standard treatment. At
this time, no research shows that alternative medicine can treat lupus. Some
alternative or complementary approaches may help you cope or reduce some of
the stress associated with living with a chronic illness. You should talk to
your doctor before trying any alternative treatments.

### How can I cope with lupus?

It is important to take an active role in your treatment. It helps to learn
more about lupus - being able to spot the warning signs of a flare can help
you prevent the flare or make the symptoms less severe.

It is also important to find ways to cope with the stress of having lupus.
Exercising and finding ways to relax may make it easier for you to cope. A
good support system can also help.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Start Here

    * I Am Newly Diagnosed with Lupus (Lupus Foundation of America)
    * Lupus among Asians and Hispanics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (Lupus) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Diagnosing Lupus (Lupus Foundation of America)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Thunder God Vine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Treatment Options (Lupus Foundation of America)

## Living With

    * Diet and Nutrition With Lupus (Lupus Foundation of America) Also in Spanish
    * Living with Lupus (Lupus Foundation of America)

## Related Issues

    * Caregivers (Lupus Foundation of America)
    * Immune System and Its Link to Rheumatic Diseases (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish
    * Lupus and Kidney Disease (Lupus Nephritis) (National Kidney Foundation)
    * Lupus Nephritis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Neurological Sequelae of Lupus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * What People with Lupus Need to Know about Osteoporosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Different Types of Lupus (Lupus Foundation of America) Also in Spanish
    * Discoid Lupus Erythematosus (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: systemic lupus erythematosus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Discoid Lupus Erythematosus (Logical Images)
    * Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lupus Erythematosus, Discoid ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Sex Differences in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus: Epidemiology, Clinical Considerations, and Disease...
    * Article: Trial of Anifrolumab in Active Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.
    * Article: Preclinical and early systemic lupus erythematosus.
    * Lupus -- see more articles
    * Cutaneous and discoid lupus -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * Lupus Foundation of America
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * womenshealth.gov (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Children & Teens (with Lupus) (Lupus Foundation of America)
    * Living with Lupus (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Lupus (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

    * Yes, Lupus Does Occur in Men (Lupus Foundation of America) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Lupus (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Planning a pregnancy (Lupus Foundation of America)
    * Pregnancy and Rheumatic Disease (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Antinuclear antibody panel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Collagen vascular disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Drug-induced lupus erythematosus (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lupus nephritis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Lupus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lupus.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Antimitochondrial antibody
    * Antinuclear antibody panel
    * Antithyroglobulin antibody
    * Antithyroid microsomal antibody
    * C-reactive protein
    * Collagen vascular disease
    * Complement
    * Complement component 3 (C3)
    * Complement component 4
    * Cryoglobulins
    * Drug-induced lupus erythematosus
    * ESR
    * Fibrinopeptide A blood test
    * Lupus anticoagulants and antiphospholipid antibodies
    * Lupus nephritis
    * Necrotizing vasculitis
    * Protein electrophoresis - serum
    * Scleritis
    * Serum globulin electrophoresis
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus

Show More Show Less

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Lupus is the National Institute
of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 20 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

