Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000758.htm    
                                Description: Some people may need medicines to help with sleep for a short period of time. But in the long run, making changes in your lifestyle and sleep habits is the best treatment for problems with falling and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Medicines for sleep

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000758.htm

# Medicines for sleep

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some people may need medicines to help with sleep for a short period of time.
But in the long run, making changes in your lifestyle and sleep habits is the
best treatment for problems with falling and staying asleep.

Before using medicines for sleep, talk to your health care provider about
treating other issues, such as:

    * Anxiety
    * Sadness or depression
    * Alcohol or illegal drug use 

## Over-the-Counter Sleep Medicines

Most over-the-counter (OTC) sleeping pills contain antihistamines. These
medicines are commonly used to treat allergies.

While these sleep aids are not addictive, your body becomes used to them
quickly. Therefore, they are less likely to help you fall asleep over time.

These medicines can also leave you feeling tired or groggy the next day and
can cause memory problems in older adults.

## Sleep Medicine From Your Provider

Sleep medicines called hypnotics can be prescribed by your provider to help
reduce the time it takes you to fall asleep. The most commonly used hypnotics
are:

    * Zolpidem (Ambien)
    * Zaleplon (Sonata)
    * Eszoicolone (Lunesta)
    * Ramelteon (Rozerem)

Most of these can become habit-forming. Only take these medicines while under
the care of a provider. You will likely be started with the lowest dose
possible.

While taking these medicines:

    * Try not to take the sleeping pills more than 3 days per week.
    * DO NOT stop these medicines suddenly. You may have symptoms of withdrawal and have more trouble falling asleep.
    * DO NOT take other medicines that can cause you to become drowsy or sleepy.

Side effects of these medicines include:

    * Feeling drowsy or dizzy during the day
    * Becoming confused or having problems remembering
    * Balance problems
    * In rare cases, behaviors such as driving, making phone calls, or eating -- all while asleep

Before taking birth control pills, cimetidine for heartburn, or medicines used
to treat fungus infections, tell your provider you are also taking sleeping
pills.

## Other Medicines for Sleep

Some depression medicines can also be used at lower doses at bedtime, because
they make you drowsy.

Your body is less likely to become dependent on these medicines. Your provider
will prescribe these drugs and monitor you while you are on them.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Side effects to watch out for include:

    * Confusion or feeling extreme joy (euphoria)
    * Increased nervousness
    * Problems focusing, performing, or driving
    * Addiction/dependency on medicines for sleep
    * Morning drowsiness
    * Increased risk for falls in older adults
    * Problems with thinking or memory in older adults

## Alternative Names

Benzodiazepines; Sedatives; Hypnotics; Sleeping pills; Insomnia - medicines;
Sleep disorder - medicines

## References

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Krystal AD. Pharmacologic treatment of insomnia: other medications. In: Kryger
M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 88.

Walsh JK, Roth T. Pharmacologic treatment of insomnia: benzodiazepine receptor
agnosists. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of
Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 87.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Insomnia
    * Sleep Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

