Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000808.htm    
                                Description: Sleepwalking is a disorder that occurs when people walk or do other activity while they are still asleep.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sleepwalking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000808.htm

# Sleepwalking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sleepwalking is a disorder that occurs when people walk or do other activity
while they are still asleep.

## Causes

The normal sleep cycle has stages, from light drowsiness to deep sleep. During
the stage called rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, the eyes move quickly and
vivid dreaming is most common.

Each night, people go through several cycles of non-REM and REM sleep.
Sleepwalking (somnambulism) most often occurs during deep, non-REM sleep
(called N3 sleep) early in the night.

Sleepwalking is much more common in children and young adults than in older
adults. This is because as people age, they have less N3 sleep. Sleepwalking
tends to run in families.

Fatigue, lack of sleep, and anxiety are all associated with sleepwalking. In
adults, sleepwalking may occur due to:

    * Alcohol, sedatives, or other medicines, such as some sleeping pills
    * Medical conditions, such as seizures
    * Mental disorders 

In older adults, sleepwalking may be a symptom of a medical problem that
causes decreased mental function neurocognitive disorder.

## Symptoms

When people sleepwalk, they may sit up and look as though they are awake when
they are actually asleep. They may get up and walk around. Or they do complex
activities such as moving furniture, going to the bathroom, and dressing or
undressing. Some people even drive a car while they are asleep.

The episode can be very brief (a few seconds or minutes) or it can last for 30
minutes or longer. Most episodes last for less than 10 minutes. If they are
not disturbed, sleepwalkers will go back to sleep. But they may fall asleep in
a different or even unusual place.

Symptoms of sleepwalking include:

    * Acting confused or disoriented when the person wakes up
    * Aggressive behavior when woken up by someone else
    * Having a blank look on the face
    * Opening eyes during sleep
    * Not remembering the sleep walking episode when they wake up
    * Performing detailed activity of any type during sleep
    * Sitting up and appearing awake during sleep
    * Talking during sleep and saying things that do not make sense
    * Walking during sleep 

## Exams and Tests

Usually, examinations and testing are not needed. If the sleepwalking occurs
often, theÂ health care providerÂ may do an exam or tests to rule out other
disorders (such as seizures).

If the person has a history of emotional problems, they also may need to have
a mental health evaluation to look for causes such as excessive anxiety or
stress.

## Treatment

Most people do not need specific treatment for sleepwalking.

In some cases, medicines such as short-acting tranquilizers are helpful in
reducing sleepwalking episodes.

Some people mistakenly believe that a sleepwalker should not be awakened. It
is not dangerous to awaken a sleepwalker, although it is common for the person
to be confused or disoriented for a short time when they wake up.

Another misconception is that a person cannot be injured while sleepwalking.
Sleepwalkers are commonly injured when they trip and lose their balance.

Safety measures may be needed to prevent injury. This may include moving
objects such as electrical cords or furniture to reduce the chance of tripping
and falling. Stairways may need to be blocked with a gate.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sleepwalking usually decreases as children get older. It usually does not
indicate a serious disorder, although it can be a symptom of other disorders.

It is unusual for sleepwalkers to perform activities that are dangerous. But
precautions should be taken to prevent injuries such as falling down stairs or
climbing out of a window.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You probably do not need to visit your provider. Discuss yourÂ condition with
your provider if:

    * You also have other symptoms
    * Sleepwalking is frequent or persistent
    * YouÂ do dangerous activities (such as driving) while sleepwalking

## Prevention

Sleepwalking may be prevented by the following:

    * Do not useÂ alcohol or anti-depressant medicinesÂ if you sleepwalk.
    * Avoid sleep deprivation, and try to prevent insomnia, because these can trigger sleepwalking.
    * Avoid or minimize stress, anxiety, and conflict, which can worsen the condition.

## Alternative Names

Walking during sleep; Somnambulism

## References

Avidan AY. Nonârapid eye movement parasomnias: clinical spectrum, diagnostic
features, and management. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles
and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
102.

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

## Review Date 5/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

