Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000801.htm    
                                Description: Sleep paralysis is a condition in which you are unable to move or speak right as you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sleep paralysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000801.htm

# Sleep paralysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sleep paralysis is a condition in which you are unable to move or speak right
as you're falling asleep or waking up. During an episode of sleep paralysis,
you are totally aware of what is happening.

## Causes

Sleep paralysis is fairly common. Many people have at least one episode during
their lifetimes.

The exact cause of sleep paralysis is not fully known. Research shows the
following are linked to sleep paralysis:

    * Not getting enough sleep
    * Having an irregular sleep schedule, such as with shift workers
    * Mental stress
    * Sleeping on your back

Certain medical problems can be associated with sleep paralysis:

    * Sleep disorders, such as narcolepsy
    * Some mental conditions, such as bipolar disorder, PTSD, panic disorder
    * Use of certain medicines, such as for ADHD
    * Substance use

Sleep paralysis that is not related to a medical problem is known as isolated
sleep paralysis.

## Symptoms

The normal sleep cycle has stages, from light drowsiness to deep sleep. During
the stage called rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, the eyes move quickly and
vivid dreaming is most common. Each night, people go through several cycles of
non-REM and REM sleep. During REM sleep, your body is relaxed and your muscles
don't move. Sleep paralysis occurs when the sleep cycle is shifting between
stages. When you wake up suddenly from REM, your brain is awake, but your body
is still in REM mode and can't move, causing you to feel like you're
paralyzed.

Episodes of sleep paralysis last from a few seconds to 1 or 2 minutes. These
spells end on their own or when you are touched or moved. In rare cases, you
can have dream-like sensations or hallucinations, which may be scary.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your symptoms, focusing on your sleep
habits and things that may affect your sleep. You may be asked to fill out a
questionnaire about your sleep to help your provider reach a diagnosis.

Sleep paralysis can be a sign of narcolepsy. But if you do not have other
symptoms of narcolepsy, there is usually no need toÂ haveÂ sleep studies done.

## Treatment

In most cases, sleep paralysis occurs so rarely that treatment is not needed.
If the cause is known, for example, due to lack of sleep, correcting the cause
by getting enough sleep often resolves the condition.

Sometimes, medicines that prevent REM during sleep are prescribed.

In people with mental health conditions, such as anxiety, medicine and
behavioral therapy (talk therapy) to help treat the mental health condition
may resolve sleep paralysis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Discuss your condition with your provider if you have repeated episodes of
sleep paralysis. They may be due to a medical problem that needs further
testing.

## Alternative Names

Parasomnia - sleep paralysis; Isolated sleep paralysis

## Images

    * ![Sleep patterns in the young and aged](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8692t.jpg)Sleep patterns in the young and aged

## References

Sharpless BA. A clinician's guide to recurrent isolated sleep paralysis.
_Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat._ 2016;12:1761-1767. PMCID: 4958367
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4958367.

Silber MH, St. Louis EK, Boeve BF. Rapid eye movement sleep parasomnias. In:
Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine._
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 103.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sleep
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepDisorders_thumb.jpg)Sleep
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

