Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003350.htm    
                                Description: The TORCH screen is a group of blood tests. These tests check for several different infections in a newborn. The full form of TORCH is toxoplasmosis, rubella cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, and HIV. However,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

TORCH screen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003350.htm

# TORCH screen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The TORCH screen is a group of blood tests. These tests check for several
different infections in a newborn. The full form of TORCH is toxoplasmosis,
rubella cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, and HIV. However, it can also contain
other newborn infections.

Sometimes the test is spelled TORCHS, where the extra "S" stands for syphilis.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider will clean a small area (usually the finger). They
will stick it with a sharp needle or cutting instrument called a lancet. The
blood may be collected in a small glass tube, on a slide, onto a test strip,
or into a small container. If there is any bleeding, cotton or a bandage may
be applied to the puncture site.

## How to Prepare for the Test

For more information about how you can prepare your child, see infant test or
procedure preparation.

## How the Test will Feel

While the blood sample is being taken, your child will most likely feel a
prick and a brief stinging sensation.

## Why the Test is Performed

If a woman becomes infected with certain germs during her pregnancy, the baby
may also become infected while still in the womb. The baby is more sensitive
to harm from infection during the first 3 to 4 months of the pregnancy.

This test is used to screen infants for TORCH infections. These infections may
lead to the following problems in the baby:

    * Birth defects
    * Growth delay
    * Brain and nervous system problems

## Normal Results

Normal values mean there is no sign of infection in the newborn.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If high levels of antibodies called immunoglobulins (IgM) against a certain
germ are found in the infant, there may be an infection. Your provider may
order more tests to confirm a diagnosis.

## Risks

Blood draws carry a small risk of bleeding, bruising, and infection at the
involved site.

## Considerations

The TORCH screen is useful for determining whether there may be an infection.
If the result is positive, more testing will be needed to confirm the
diagnosis. The mother will also need to be checked.

## References

Harrison GJ. Approach to infections in the fetus and newborn. In: Cherry JD,
Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's
Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

Maldonado YA, Nizet V, Klein JO, Remington JS, Wilson CB. Current concepts of
infections of the fetus and newborn infant. In: Wilson CB, Nizet V, Maldonado
YA, Remington JS, Klein JO, eds. _Remington and Klein's infectious Diseases of
the Fetus and Newborn_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
1.

Schleiss MR, Marsh KJ, Viral infections of the fetus and newborn. In: Gleason
CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 37.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Newborn
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NewbornScreening_thumb.jpg)Newborn
Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

