Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007257.htm    
                                Description: Newborn screening tests look for developmental, genetic, and metabolic disorders in the newborn baby. This allows steps to be taken before symptoms develop. Most of these illnesses are very rare, but can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Newborn screening tests

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007257.htm

# Newborn screening tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Newborn screening tests look for developmental, genetic, and metabolic
disorders in the newborn baby. This allows steps to be taken before symptoms
develop. Most of these illnesses are very rare, but can be treated if caught
early.

The types of newborn screening tests that are done vary from state to state.
By April 2011, all states reported screening for at least 26 disorders on an
expanded and standardized uniform panel. The most thorough screening panel
checks for about 40 disorders. However, because phenylketonuria (PKU) was the
first disorder for which a screening test developed, some people still call
the newborn screen "the PKU test".

In addition to blood tests, screening for hearing loss and critical congenital
heart disease (CCHD) is recommended for all newborns. Many states require this
screening by law as well.

## How the Test is Performed

Screenings are done using the following methods:

    * Blood tests. A few drops of blood are taken from the baby's heel. The blood is sent to a lab for analysis.
    * Hearing test. A health care provider will place a tiny earpiece or microphone in the infant's ear. Another method uses electrodes that are put on the baby's head while the baby is quiet or asleep.
    * CCHD screen. A provider will place a small soft sensor on the baby's skin and attach it to a machine called an oximeter for a few minutes. The oximeter will measure the baby's oxygen levels in the hand and foot. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no preparation needed for newborn screening tests. The tests are most
often done before leaving the hospital when the baby is between 24 hours and 7
days old.

## How the Test will Feel

The baby will most likely cry when the heel is pricked to get the blood
sample. Studies have shown that babies whose mothers hold them skin-to-skin or
breastfeed them during the procedure show less distress. Wrapping the baby
tightly in a blanket, or offering a pacifier dipped in sugar water, may also
help ease pain and calm the baby.

The hearing test and the CCHD screen should not cause the baby to feel pain,
cry, or respond.

## Why the Test is Performed

Screening tests do not diagnose illnesses. They show which babies need more
testing to confirm or rule out illnesses.

If follow-up testing confirms that the child has a disease, treatment can be
started, before symptoms appear.

Blood screening tests are used to detect a number of disorders. Some of these
may include:

    * Amino acid metabolism disorders
    * Biotinidase deficiency
    * Congenital adrenal hyperplasia
    * Congenital hypothyroidism
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Fatty acid metabolism disorders
    * Galactosemia
    * Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD)
    * Human immunodeficiency disease (HIV)
    * Organic acid metabolism disorders
    * Phenylketonuria (PKU)
    * Sickle cell disease and other hemoglobin disorders and traits
    * Toxoplasmosis 

## Normal Results

Normal values for each screening test may vary depending on how the test is
performed.

 **Note:** Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories.
Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that the child should have additional testing to
confirm or rule out the condition.

## Risks

Risks for the newborn heel prick blood sample include:

    * Pain
    * Possible bruising at the site where the blood was obtained

## Considerations

Newborn testing is critical for the baby to receive treatment. Treatment may
be lifesaving. However, not all disorders that can be detected can be treated.

Although hospitals do not perform all screening tests, parents can have other
tests done at large medical centers. Private labs also offer newborn
screening. Parents can find out about extra newborn screening tests from their
provider or the hospital where the baby is born. Groups like the March of
Dimes -- www.marchofdimes.org also offer screening test resources.

## Alternative Names

Infant screening tests; Neonatal screening tests; The PKU test

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Newborn screening portal.
www.cdc.gov/newbornscreening. Updated February 7, 2019. Accessed June 26,
2019.

Sahai I, Levy HL. Newborn screening. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's
Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Newborn
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NewbornScreening_thumb.jpg)Newborn
Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

