Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003366.htm    
                                Description: Aminoaciduria is an abnormal amount of amino acids in the urine. Amino acids are the building blocks for proteins in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aminoaciduria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003366.htm

# Aminoaciduria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aminoaciduria is an abnormal amount of amino acids in the urine. Amino acids
are the building blocks for proteins in the body.

## How the Test is Performed

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. This is often done at yourÂ health care
provider'sÂ office or health clinic.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time, you do not need to take special steps before this test. Make
sure yourÂ providerÂ knows all of the medicines you recently used. If this
test is being done on an infant who is breastfeeding, make sure the provider
knows what medicines the nursing mother is taking.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to measure amino acid levels in the urine. There are many
different types of amino acids. It is common for some of each kind to be found
in the urine. Increased levels of individual amino acids can be a sign of a
problem with metabolism.

## Normal Results

The specific value is measured in mmol/mol creatinine. The values below
represent normal ranges in 24 hours urine for adults.

Alanine: 9 to 98

Arginine: 0 to 8

Asparagine: 10 to 65

Aspartic acid: 5 to 50

Citrulline: 1 to 22

Cystine: 2 to 12

Glutamic acid: 0 to 21

Glutamine: 11 to 42

Glycine: 17 to 146

Histidine: 49 to 413

Isoleucine: 30 to 186

Leucine: 1 to 9

Lysine: 2 to 16

Methionine: 2 to 53

Ornithine: 1 to 5

Phenylalanine: 1 to 5

Proline: 3 to 13

Serine: 0 to 9

Taurine: 18 to 89

Threonine: 13 to 587

Tyrosine: 3 to 14

Valine: 3 to 36

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased total urine amino acids may be due to:

    * Alkaptonuria
    * Canavan disease
    * Cystinosis
    * Cystathioninuria
    * Fructose intolerance
    * Galactosemia
    * Hartnup disease
    * Homocystinuria
    * Hyperammonemia
    * Hyperparathyroidism
    * Maple syrup urine disease
    * Methylmalonic acidemia
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency
    * Osteomalacia
    * Propionic acidemia
    * Rickets
    * Tyrosinemia type 1
    * Tyrosinemia type 2
    * Viral hepatitis
    * Wilson disease

## Considerations

Screening infants for increased levels of amino acids can help detect problems
with metabolism. Early treatment for these conditions may prevent
complications in the future.

## Alternative Names

Amino acids - urine; Urine amino acids

## Images

    * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample
    * ![Aminoaciduria urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8603t.jpg)Aminoaciduria urine test

## References

Dietzen DJ. Amino acids, peptides, and proteins. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz
Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Defects in
metabolism of amino acids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 103.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Newborn
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NewbornScreening_thumb.jpg)Newborn
Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

