Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003402.htm    
                                Description: Apgar is a quick test performed on a baby at 1 and 5 minutes after birth. The 1-minute score determines how well the baby tolerated the birthing process. The 5-minute score tells the health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Apgar score

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003402.htm

# Apgar score

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Apgar is a quick test performed on a baby at 1 and 5 minutes after birth. The
1-minute score determines how well the baby tolerated the birthing process.
The 5-minute score tells the health care provider how well the baby is doing
outside the mother's womb.

In rare cases, the test will be done 10 minutes after birth.

Virginia Apgar, MD (1909-1974) introduced the Apgar score in 1952.

## How the Test is Performed

The Apgar test is done by a doctor, midwife, or nurse. The provider examines
the baby's:

    * Breathing effort
    * Heart rate
    * Muscle tone
    * Reflexes
    * Skin color 

Each category is scored with 0, 1, or 2, depending on the observed condition.

Breathing effort:

    * If the infant is not breathing, the respiratory score is 0.
    * If the respirations are slow or irregular, the infant scores 1 for respiratory effort.
    * If the infant cries well, the respiratory score is 2. 

Heart rate is evaluated by stethoscope. This is the most important assessment:

    * If there is no heartbeat, the infant scores 0 for heart rate.
    * If heart rate is less than 100 beats per minute, the infant scores 1 for heart rate.
    * If heart rate is greater than 100 beats per minute, the infant scores 2 for heart rate. 

Muscle tone:

    * If muscles are loose and floppy, the infant scores 0 for muscle tone.
    * If there is some muscle tone, the infant scores 1.
    * If there is active motion, the infant scores 2 for muscle tone. 

Grimace response or reflex irritability is a term describing response to
stimulation, such as a mild pinch:

    * If there is no reaction, the infant scores 0 for reflex irritability.
    * If there is grimacing, the infant scores 1 for reflex irritability.
    * If there is grimacing and a cough, sneeze, or vigorous cry, the infant scores 2 for reflex irritability. 

Skin color:

    * If the skin color is pale blue, the infant scores 0 for color.
    * If the body is pink and the extremities are blue, the infant scores 1 for color.
    * If the entire body is pink, the infant scores 2 for color. 

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to determine whether a newborn needs help breathing or is
having heart trouble.

## Normal Results

The Apgar score is based on a total score of 1 to 10. The higher the score,
the better the baby is doing after birth.

A score of 7, 8, or 9 is normal and is a sign that the newborn is in good
health. A score of 10 is very unusual, since almost all newborns lose 1 point
for blue hands and feet, which is normal for after birth.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Any score lower than 7 is a sign that the baby needs medical attention. The
lower the score, the more help the baby needs to adjust outside the mother's
womb.

Most of the time a low Apgar score is caused by:

    * Difficult birth
    * C-section
    * Fluid in the baby's airway 

A baby with a low Apgar score may need:

    * Oxygen and clearing out the airway to help with breathing
    * Physical stimulation to get the heart beating at a healthy rate 

Most of the time, a low score at 1 minute is near-normal by 5 minutes.

A lower Apgar score does not mean a child will have serious or long-term
health problems. The Apgar score is not designed to predict the future health
of the child.

## Alternative Names

Newborn scoring; Delivery - Apgar

## Images

    * ![Infant care following delivery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2924t.jpg)Infant care following delivery
    * ![Newborn test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9074t.jpg)Newborn test

## References

Carlo WA. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 94.

Hobel CJ, Lamb AR. Fetal surveillance during labor. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC,
Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Newborn
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NewbornScreening_thumb.jpg)Newborn
Screening _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

