Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003824.htm    
                                Description: Lung gallium scan is a type of nuclear scan that uses radioactive galliumÂ to identify swelling (inflammation) in the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung gallium scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003824.htm

# Lung gallium scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lung gallium scan is a type of nuclear scan that uses radioactive galliumÂ to
identify swelling (inflammation) in the lungs.

## How the Test is Performed

Gallium is injected into a vein. The scan will be taken 6 to 24 hours after
the gallium is injected. (Test time depends on whether your condition is acute
or chronic.)

During the test, you lie on a table that moves underneath a scanner called a
gamma camera. The camera detects the radiation produced by the gallium. Images
display on a computer screen.

During the scan, it is important that you keep still to get a clear image. The
technician can help make you comfortable before the scan begins. The test
takes about 30 to 60 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Several hours to 1 day before the scan, you will get an injection of gallium
at the place where the testing will be done.

Just before the scan, remove jewelry, dentures, or other metal objects that
can affect the scan. Take off the clothing on the upper half of your body and
put on a hospital gown.

## How the Test will Feel

The injection of gallium will sting, and the puncture site may hurt for
several hours or days when touched.

The scan is painless, but you must stay still. This may cause discomfort for
some people.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is usually done when you have signs of inflammation in the lungs.
This is most oftenÂ due toÂ sarcoidosisÂ or a certain type of pneumonia.

## Normal Results

The lungs should appear of normal size and texture, and should take up very
little gallium.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If a large amount of gallium is seen in the lungs, it may mean any of the
following problems:

    * Sarcoidosis (disease in which inflammation occurs in the lungs and other tissues of the body)
    * Other respiratory infections, most often a type of pneumonia caused by the fungus _Pneumocystis jirovecii_

## Risks

There is some risk to children or unborn babies. Because a pregnant or nursing
woman may pass on radiation, special precautions will be made.

For women who are not pregnant or nursing and for men, there is very little
risk from the radiation in gallium, because the amount is very small. There
are increased risks if you are exposed to radiation (such as x-rays and scans)
many times. Discuss any concerns you have about radiation with the health care
provider who recommends the test.

## Considerations

Usually the provider will recommend this scan based on the results of a chest
x-ray. Small defects may not be visible on the scan. For this reason, this
test is not often done anymore.

## Alternative Names

Gallium 67 lung scan; Lung scan; Gallium scan - lung; Scan - lung

## Images

    * ![Gallium injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9595t.jpg)Gallium injection

## References

Gotway MB, Panse PM, Gruden JF, Elicker BM. Thoracic radiology: noninvasive
diagnostic imaging. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray
and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

Harisinghani MG, Chen JW, Weissleder R. Chest imaging. In: Harisinghani MG,
Chen JW, Weissleder R, eds. _Primer of Diagnostic Imaging_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 1.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![Sarcoidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sarcoidosis_thumb.jpg)Sarcoidosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

