Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000076.htm    
                                Description: Sarcoidosis is a disease in which inflammation occurs in the lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, and/or other tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sarcoidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000076.htm

# Sarcoidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sarcoidosis is a disease in which inflammation occurs in the lymph nodes,
lungs, liver, eyes, skin, and/or other tissues.

## Causes

The exact cause of sarcoidosisÂ is unknown. What is known is that when a
person has the disease, tiny clumps of abnormal tissue (granulomas) form in
certain organs of the body. Granulomas are clusters of immune cells.

The disease can affect almost any organ. It most commonly affects the lungs.

Doctors think that having certain genes makes it more likely for a person to
developÂ sarcoidosis. Things that may trigger the disease include infections
with bacteria or viruses. Contact with dust or chemicals may also be triggers.

The disease is more common in African Americans and white people of
Scandinavian heritage. More women than men have the disease.

The disease often begins between ages 20 and 40. Sarcoidosis is rare in young
children.

A person with a close blood relative who has sarcoidosis is nearly 5 times as
likely to develop the condition.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. When symptoms do occur, they can involve almost any
body part or organ system.

Almost allÂ people affected by sarcoidosisÂ have lung or chest symptoms:

    * Chest pain (most often behind the breast bone)
    * Dry cough
    * Shortness of breath
    * Coughing up blood (rare, but serious)  

Symptoms of general discomfort may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Joint ache or pain (arthralgia)
    * Weight loss

Skin symptoms may include:

    * Hair loss
    * Raised, red, firm skin sores (erythema nodosum), almost always on the front part of the lower legs
    * Rash
    * Scars that become raised or inflamed

Nervous system symptoms may include:

    * Headache
    * Seizures
    * Weakness on one side of the face

Eye symptoms may include:

    * Burning
    * Discharge from the eye
    * Dry eyes
    * Itching
    * Pain
    * Vision loss

Other symptoms of this disease may include:

    * Dry mouth
    * Fainting spells, if the heart is involved
    * Nosebleed
    * Swelling in the upper part of the abdomen
    * Liver disease
    * Swelling of the legs if heart and lungs are involved
    * Abnormal heart rhythm if the heart is involved

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about the
symptoms.

Different imaging tests may help diagnose sarcoidosis:

    * Chest x-ray to see if the lungs are involved or lymph nodes are enlarged
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Lung gallium scanÂ (rarely done now)
    * Imaging tests of the brain and liver
    * Echocardiogram or MRI of the heart 

To diagnose this condition, a biopsy is needed. Biopsy of the lung using
bronchoscopy is usually done. Biopsies of other body tissues may also be done.

The following lab tests may be done:

    * Calcium levels (urine, ionized, blood)
    * CBC
    * Immunoelectrophoresis
    * Liver function tests
    * Quantitative immunoglobulins
    * Phosphorus
    * Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)

## Treatment

Sarcoidosis symptoms will often get better without treatment.

If the eyes, heart, nervous system, or lungs are affected, corticosteroids are
usually prescribed. This medicine may need to be taken for 1 to 2 years.

Medicines that suppress the immune system are sometimes also needed.

In rare cases, people withÂ very severe heart or lung damage (end-stage
disease) may need an organ transplant.

With sarcoidosis that affects the heart, an implantable cardioverter-
defibrillator (ICD) may be needed to treat heart rhythm problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people with sarcoidosis are not seriously ill, and get better without
treatment. Up to half of all people with the disease get better in 3 years
without treatment. People whose lungs are affected may develop lung damage.

Overall death rate from sarcoidosis is less than 5%. Causes of death include:

    * Bleeding from the lung tissue
    * Heart damage, leading to heart failure and abnormal heart rhythms
    * Lung scarring (pulmonary fibrosis)

## Possible Complications

Sarcoidosis may lead to these health problems:

    * Fungal lung infections (aspergillosis)
    * Glaucoma and blindness from uveitis (rare)
    * Kidney stones from high calcium levels in blood or urine
    * Osteoporosis and other complications of taking corticosteroids for long periods of time
    * High blood pressure in the arteries of the lungsÂ (pulmonary hypertension)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider promptly if you have:

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Vision changes 
    * Other symptoms of this disorder

## Patient Instructions

    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Sarcoid, stage I - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1613t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage I - chest x-ray
    * ![Sarcoid, stage II - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1614t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage II - chest x-ray
    * ![Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1615t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray
    * ![Sarcoid - close-up of the skin lesions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2031t.jpg)Sarcoid - close-up of the skin lesions
    * ![Erythema nodosum associated with sarcoidosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2532t.jpg)Erythema nodosum associated with sarcoidosis
    * ![Sarcoidosis - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2533t.jpg)Sarcoidosis - close-up
    * ![Sarcoidosis on the elbow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2534t.jpg)Sarcoidosis on the elbow
    * ![Sarcoidosis on the nose and forehead](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2535t.jpg)Sarcoidosis on the nose and forehead
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Iannuzzi MC. Sarcoidosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 89.

Judson MA, Morgenthau AS, Baughman RP. Sarcoidosis. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

Soto-Gomez N, Peters JI, Nambiar AM. Diagnosis and management of sarcoidosis.
_Am Fam Physician_. 2016;93(10):840-848. PMID: 27175719
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27175719.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sarcoidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sarcoidosis_thumb.jpg)Sarcoidosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

