Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003854.htm    
                                Description: Lung diffusion testing measures how well the lungs exchange gases. This is an important part of lung testing, because the major function of the lungs is to allow oxygen to &quot;diffuse&quot; or pass into the blood    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung diffusion testing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003854.htm

# Lung diffusion testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lung diffusion testing measures how well the lungs exchange gases. This is an
important part of lung testing, because the major function of the lungs is to
allow oxygen to "diffuse" or pass into the blood from the lungs, and to allow
carbon dioxide to "diffuse" from the blood into the lungs.

## How the Test is Performed

You breathe in (inhale) air containing a very small amount of carbon monoxideÂ
and a tracer gas, such as methane or helium. You hold your breath for 10
seconds, then rapidly blow it out (exhale). The exhaled gas is tested to
determine how much of the tracer gas was absorbed during the breath.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Before taking this test:

    * Do not eat a heavy meal before the test.
    * Do not smoke for at least 4Â to 6 hours before the test. 
    * If you use a bronchodilator or other inhaled medicines, ask your health care provider whether or not you can use them before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The mouthpiece fits tightly around your mouth. Clips are put on your nose.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is used to diagnose certain lung diseases, and to monitor the status
of people with established lung disease. Repeatedly measuring the diffusing
capacity can help determine whether the disease is improving or getting worse.

## Normal Results

Normal test results depend on a person's:

    * Age 
    * Sex 
    * Height 
    * Hemoglobin (the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen) level

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean that gases do not move normally across the lung tissues
into the blood vessels of the lung. This may be due to lung diseases such as:

    * COPD
    * Interstitial fibrosis
    * Pulmonary embolism
    * Pulmonary hypertension
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Bleeding in the lung
    * Asthma

## Risks

There are no significant risks.

## Considerations

Other pulmonary function tests may be done together with this test.

## Alternative Names

Diffusing capacity; DLCO test

## Images

    * ![Lung diffusion testing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9598t.jpg)Lung diffusion testing

## References

Gold WM, Koth LL. Pulmonary function testing. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 25.

Scanlon PD. Respiratory function: mechanisms and testing. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Emphysema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Emphysema_thumb.jpg)Emphysema
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Pulmonary
Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryFibrosis_thumb.jpg)Pulmonary
Fibrosis _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

