Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000720.htm    
                                Description: Neurosarcoidosis is a complication of sarcoidosis, in which inflammation occurs in the brain, spinal cord, and other areas of the nervous system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neurosarcoidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000720.htm

# Neurosarcoidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neurosarcoidosis is a complication of sarcoidosis, in which inflammation
occurs in the brain, spinal cord, and other areas of the nervous system.

## Causes

Sarcoidosis is a chronic disease that affects many parts of the body, mostly
the lungs. In a small number of people, the disease involves some part of the
nervous system. This is called neurosarcoidosis.

Neurosarcoidosis may affect any part of the nervous system. Sudden, facial
weakness (facial palsy or facial droop) is a common neurological symptom that
involves the nerves to the muscles of the face. Any other nerve in the skull
can be affected, including those in the eye and those that control taste,
smell, or hearing.

The spinal cord is another part of the nervous system that sarcoidosis can
affect. People may have weakness in their arms and legs, and difficulty
walking or controlling their urine or bowels. In some cases, the spinal cord
is so severely affected that both legs are paralyzed.

The condition can also affect the parts of the brain involved in regulating
many body functions, such as temperature, sleep, and stress responses.

Muscle weakness or sensory losses can occur with peripheral nerve involvement.
Other areas of the brain, including the pituitary gland at the base of the
brain, or the spinal cord may also be involved.

## Symptoms

Involvement of the pituitary gland can cause:

    * Changes in menstrual periods
    * Excessive tiredness or fatigue
    * Excessive thirst
    * High urine output

The symptoms vary. Any part of the nervous system can be affected. Involvement
of the brain or cranial nerves can cause:

    * Confusion, disorientation
    * Decreased hearing
    * Dementia
    * Dizziness, vertigo, or abnormal sensations of movement
    * Double vision or other vision problems, including blindness
    * Facial palsy (weakness, drooping)
    * Headache
    * Loss of sense of smell
    * Loss of sense of taste, abnormal tastes 
    * Mental disturbances
    * Seizures
    * Speech impairment 

Involvement of one or more peripheral nerves can lead to:

    * Abnormal sensations in any body part
    * Loss of movement of any body part
    * Loss of sensation in any body part
    * Weakness of any body part 

## Exams and Tests

An exam may show problems with one or more nerves.

A history of sarcoidosis followed by nerve-related symptoms highly suggests
neurosarcoidosis. However, symptoms of the condition can mimic other medical
disorders, including diabetes insipidus, hypopituitarism, optic neuritis,
meningitis, and certain tumors. Sometimes, the nervous system can be affected
before a person is known to have sarcoidosis, or without affecting the lungs
or other organs at all.

Blood tests are not very helpful in diagnosing the condition. A lumbar
puncture may show signs of inflammation. Increased levels of angiotensin-
converting enzyme may be found in the blood or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
However, this is not a reliable diagnostic test.

MRI of the brain may be helpful. A chest x-ray often reveals signs of
sarcoidosis of the lungs. Nerve biopsy of affected nerve tissue confirms the
disorder.

## Treatment

There is no known cure for sarcoidosis. Treatment is given if symptoms are
severe or are getting worse. The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms.

Corticosteroids such as prednisone are prescribed to reduce inflammation. They
are often prescribed until symptoms get better or go away. You may need to
take the medicines for months, or even years.

Other medicines may include hormone replacement and medicines that suppress
the immune system.

If you have numbness, weakness, vision or hearing problems, or other problems
due to damage of the nerves in the head, you may need physical therapy,
braces, a cane, walker or wheelchair.

Mental disorders or dementia may require medicines for depression, safety
interventions, and assistance with care.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some cases go away on their own in 4 to 6 months. Others continue off and on
for the rest of the person's life. Neurosarcoidosis can cause permanent
disability and, in some cases, death.

## Possible Complications

Complications vary depending on which part of the nervous system is involved
and how you respond to treatment. Slowly worsening or permanent loss of
neurological function is possible. In rare cases, the brainstem may be
involved. This is life threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have sarcoidosis and any neurological
symptoms occur.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have a sudden loss of sensation, movement, or body function.

## Prevention

Aggressive treatment of sarcoidosis turns off the body's faulty immune
response before your nerves become damaged. This may reduce the chance that
neurological symptoms will occur.

## Alternative Names

Sarcoidosis - nervous system

## Images

    * ![Sarcoid, stage I - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1613t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage I - chest x-ray
    * ![Sarcoid, stage II - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1614t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage II - chest x-ray
    * ![Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1615t.jpg)Sarcoid, stage IV - chest x-ray

## References

Iannuzzi MC. Sarcoidosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 95.

Ibitoye RT, Wilkins A, Scolding NJ. Neurosarcoidosis: a clinical approach to
diagnosis and management. _J Neurol_. 2017;264(5):1023-1028. PMID: 27878437
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27878437.

Josephson SA, Aminoff MJ. Neurological complications of systemic disease:
adults. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
58.

Krumholz A, Stern BJ. Sarcoidosis of the nervous system. In: Aminoff MJ,
Josephson SW, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General Medicine_. 5th ed.
Waltham, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2014:chap 49.

Tavee JO, Stern BJ. Neurosarcoidosis. _Clin Chest Med_. 2015;36(4):643-656.
PMID: 26593139 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26593139.

## Review Date 3/11/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Sarcoidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sarcoidosis_thumb.jpg)Sarcoidosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

