Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000016.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital to treat your breathing problems that are caused by interstitial lung disease. This disease scars your lungs, which makes it hard for your body to get enough oxygen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000016.htm

# Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital to treat your breathing problems that are caused by
interstitial lung disease. This disease scars your lungs, which makes it hard
for your body to get enough oxygen.

## When You're in the Hospital

In the hospital, you received oxygen treatment. After you go home, you may
need to keep using oxygen. Your doctor may have given you a new medicine to
treat your lungs.

## What to Expect at Home

After you go home, follow instructions on taking care of yourself. Use the
information below as a reminder.

## Keep Active

To build strength:

    * Try walking and slowly increasing how far you walk. Ask your health care provider how far you should walk.
    * Try not to talk when you walk.
    * Ride a stationary bike. Ask your provider how long and how hard to ride.

Build your strength even when you are sitting.

    * Use small weights or an exercise band to strengthen your arms and shoulders.
    * Stand up and sit down several times.
    * Hold your legs straight out in front of you, then lower them. Repeat this movement several times.

Ask your provider whether you need to use oxygen during your activities, and
if so, how much. You may be told to keep your oxygen above 90%. You can
measure this with an oximeter. This is a small device that measures your
body's oxygen level.

Talk to your provider about whether you should do an exercise and conditioning
program such as pulmonary rehabilitation.

## Self-care

Eat smaller meals more often. It might be easier to breathe when your stomach
is not full. Try to eat 6 small meals a day. DO NOT drink a lot of liquid
before eating or with your meals.

Ask your provider what foods to eat to get more energy.

Keep your lungs from becoming more damaged.

    * If you smoke, now is the time to quit.
    * Stay away from smokers when you are out.
    * DO NOT allow smoking in your home.
    * Stay away from strong odors and fumes.
    * Do breathing exercises. 

Take all the medicines that your provider prescribed for you.

Talk to your provider if you feel depressed or anxious.

## Stay Away From Infections

Get a flu shot every year. Ask your provider if you should get a pneumococcal
(pneumonia) vaccine.

Wash your hands often. Always wash after you go to the bathroom and when you
are around people who are sick.

Stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have colds to wear masks or to visit
after they are all better.

## Make it Easy for Yourself at Home

Place items you use often in spots where you do not have to reach or bend over
to get them.

Use a cart with wheels to move things around the house and kitchen. Use an
electric can opener, dishwasher, and other things that will make your chores
easier to do. Use cooking tools (knives, peelers, and pans) that are not
heavy.

To save energy:

    * Use slow, steady motions when you do things.
    * Sit down if you can when you are cooking, eating, dressing, and bathing.
    * Get help for harder tasks.
    * Do not try to do too much in one day.
    * Keep the phone with you or near you.
    * After bathing, wrap yourself in a towel rather than drying off.
    * Try to reduce stress in your life. 

## Going Home With Oxygen

Never change how much oxygen is flowing in your oxygen setup without asking
your provider.

Always have a back-up supply of oxygen in the home or with you when you go
out. Keep the phone number of your oxygen supplier with you at all times.
Learn how to use oxygen safely at home.

## Follow-up

Your hospital provider may ask you to make a follow-up visit with:

    * Your primary care doctor
    * A respiratory therapist who can teach you breathing exercises and how to use your oxygen
    * Your lung doctor (pulmonologist)
    * Someone who can help you stop smoking, if you smoke
    * A physical therapist, if you join a pulmonary rehabilitation program 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your breathing is:

    * Getting harder
    * Faster than before
    * Shallow, and you cannot get a deep breath 

Also call your provider if:

    * You need to lean forward when sitting in order to breathe easier
    * You are using muscles around the ribs to help you breathe
    * You are having headaches more often
    * You feel sleepy or confused
    * You have a fever
    * You are coughing up dark mucus
    * Your fingertips or the skin around your fingernails is blue 

## Alternative Names

Diffuse parenchymal lung disease - discharge; Alveolitis - discharge;
Idiopathic pulmonary pneumonitis - discharge; IPP - discharge; Chronic
interstitial lung - discharge; Chronic respiratory interstitial lung -
discharge; Hypoxia - interstitial lung - discharge

## References

Raghu G. Interstitial lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 92.

Ryu JH, Selman M, Colby TV, King TE. Idiopathic interstitial pneumonias. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
63.

## Read More

    * Asbestosis
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Coal worker's pneumoconiosis
    * Drug-induced pulmonary disease
    * Hypersensitivity pneumonitis
    * Interstitial lung disease
    * Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis
    * Rheumatoid lung disease
    * Sarcoidosis

## Patient Instructions

    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * Oxygen safety
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Interstitial Lung Diseases
    * Sarcoidosis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

