Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000409.htm    
                                Description: A Leydig cell tumor is a tumor of the testicle. It develops from Leydig cells. These are the cells in the testicles that release the male hormone, testosterone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leydig cell testicular tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000409.htm

# Leydig cell testicular tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Leydig cell tumor is a tumor of the testicle. It develops from Leydig cells.
These are the cells in the testicles that release the male hormone,
testosterone.

## Causes

The cause of this tumor is unknown. There are no known risk factors for this
tumor. Unlike germ cell tumors of the testicles, this tumor does not seem to
be linked to undescended testes.

Leydig cell tumors make up a very small number of all testicular tumors. They
are most often found in men between 30 and 60 years of age. This tumor is not
common in children before puberty, but it may cause early puberty.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms.

When symptoms do occur, they can include:

    * Discomfort or pain in the testicle
    * Enlargement of a testicle or change in the way it feels
    * Excess growth of breast tissue (gynecomastia) -- however, this can occur normally in adolescent boys who do not have testicular cancer
    * Heaviness in the scrotum
    * Lump or swelling in either testicle
    * Pain in the lower abdomen or back
    * Not able to father children (infertility)

Symptoms in other parts of the body, such as the lungs, abdomen, pelvis, back,
or brain may also occur if the cancer has spread.

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination typically reveals a firm lump inÂ one of the testicles.
When the health care provider holds a flashlight up to the scrotum, the light
does not pass through the lump.Â This test is called transillumination.

Other tests include:

    * Blood tests for tumor markers: alpha fetoprotein (AFP), human chorionic gonadotropin (beta HCG), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)
    * CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis to check if the cancer has spread
    * Ultrasound of the scrotum

An examination of the tissue is usually done after the entire testicle is
surgically removed (orchiectomy).

## Treatment

Treatment of a Leydig cell tumor depends on its stage.

    * Stage I cancer has not spread beyond the testicle.
    * Stage II cancer has spread to lymph nodes in the abdomen.
    * Stage III cancer has spread beyond the lymph nodes (possibly as far as the liver, lungs, or brain).

Surgery is done to remove the testicle (orchiectomy). Nearby lymph nodes may
also be removed (lymphadenectomy).

Chemotherapy may be used to treat this tumor. As Leydig cell tumors are rare,
these treatments have not been studied as much as treatments for other, more
common testicular cancers.

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where members share common experiences and problems
can often help ease the stress of illness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Testicular cancer isÂ one of the most treatable and curable cancers. Outlook
is worse if the tumor is not found early.

## Possible Complications

The cancer may spread to other parts of the body. The most common sites
include the:

    * Abdomen
    * Lungs
    * Retroperitoneal area (the area near the kidneys behind the other organs in the belly area)
    * Spine 

Complications of surgery can include:

    * Bleeding and infection
    * Infertility (if both testicles are removed) 

If you are of childbearing age, ask your provider about methods to save your
sperm for use at a later date.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of testicular cancer.

## Prevention

Performing testicular self-examination (TSE) each month may help detect
testicular cancer at an early stage, before it spreads. Finding testicular
cancer early is important for successful treatment and survival.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - Leydig cell; Testicular tumor - Leydig

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

American Cancer Society website. Signs and symptoms of testicular cancer.
www.cancer.org/cancer/testicular-cancer/detection-diagnosis-staging/signs-and-
symptoms.html. Updated May 17, 2018. Accessed June 11, 2018.

Friedlander TW, Ryan CJ, Small EJ, Torti F. Testicular cancer. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 86.

National Cancer Institute website. Testicular cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/testicular/hp/testicular-treatment-
pdq. Updated January 30, 2018. Accessed June 11, 2018.

Stephenson AJ, Gilligan TD. Neoplasms of the testis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularCancer_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

