Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001288.htm    
                                Description: Testicular cancer is cancer that starts in the testicles. The testicles are the male reproductive glands located in the scrotum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicular cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001288.htm

# Testicular cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testicular cancer is cancer that starts in the testicles. The testicles are
the male reproductive glands located in the scrotum.

## Causes

The exact cause of testicular cancer is poorly understood. Factors that may
increase a man's risk of developing testicular cancer are:

    * Abnormal testicle development 
    * Exposure to certain chemicals 
    * Family history of testicular cancer 
    * HIV infection
    * History of testicular cancer 
    * History of an undescended testicle (one or both testicles fail to move into the scrotum before birth) 
    * Klinefelter syndrome
    * Infertility
    * Tobacco use
    * Down syndrome

Testicular cancer is the most common cancer in young and middle-aged men. It
can also occur in older men, and in rare cases, in younger boys.

White men are more likely than African American and Asian American men to
develop this type of cancer.

There is no link between vasectomy and testicular cancer.

There are two main types of testicular cancer:

    * Seminomas
    * Nonseminomas

These cancers grow from germ cells, the cells that make sperm.

Seminoma: This is a slow-growing form of testicular cancer found in men in
their 40s and 50s. The cancer is in the testes, but it can spread to the lymph
nodes. Lymph node involvement is either treated with radiotherapy or
chemotherapy. Seminomas are very sensitive to radiation therapy.

Nonseminoma: This more common type of testicular cancer tends to grow more
quickly than seminomas.

Nonseminoma tumors are often made up of more than one type of cell, and are
identified according to these different cell types:

    * Choriocarcinoma (rare)
    * Embryonal carcinoma
    * Teratoma
    * Yolk sac tumor

A stromal tumor is a rare type of testicular tumor. They are usually not
cancerous. The two main types of stromal tumors are Leydig cell tumors and
Sertoli cell tumors. Stromal tumors usually occur during childhood.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. The cancer may look like a painless mass in the
testes. If there are symptoms, they may include:

    * Discomfort or pain in the testicle, or a feeling of heaviness in the scrotum 
    * Pain in the back or lower abdomen
    * Enlarged testicle or a change in the way it feels
    * Excess amount of breast tissue (gynecomastia), however this can occur normally in adolescent boys who do not have testicular cancer
    * Lump or swelling in either testicle

Symptoms in other parts of the body, such as the lungs, abdomen, pelvis, back,
or brain, may also occur if the cancer has spread outside the testicles.

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination typically reveals a firm lump (mass) in one of the
testicles. When the health care provider holds a flashlight up to the scrotum,
the light does not pass through the lump. This exam is called
transillumination.

Other tests include:

    * Abdominal and pelvic CT scan
    * Blood tests for tumor markers: alpha fetoprotein (AFP), human chorionic gonadotrophin (beta HCG), and lactic dehydrogenase (LDH)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Ultrasound of the scrotum
    * Bone scan and head CT scan (to look for the spread of cancer to the bones and head)
    * Testicular biopsy
    * MRI brain

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the:

    * Type of testicular tumor
    * Stage of the tumor

Once cancer is found, the first step is to determine the type of cancer cell
by examining it under a microscope. The cells can be seminoma, nonseminoma, or
both.

The next step is to determine how far the cancer has spread to other parts of
the body. This is called "staging."

    * Stage I cancer has not spread beyond the testicle.
    * Stage II cancer has spread to lymph nodes in the abdomen.
    * Stage III cancer has spread beyond the lymph nodes (it could be as far as the liver, lungs, or brain).

Three types of treatment can be used.

    * Surgical treatment removes the testicle (orchiectomy).
    * Radiation therapy using high-dose x-rays or other high-energy rays may be used after surgery to prevent the tumor from returning. Radiation therapy is usually only used for treating seminomas.
    * Chemotherapy uses medicines to kill cancer cells. This treatment has greatly improved survival for people with both seminomas and nonseminomas.

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where members share common experiences and problems
can often help the stress of illness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Testicular cancer isÂ one of the most treatable and curable cancers.

The survival rate for men with early-stage seminoma (the least aggressive type
of testicular cancer) is greater than 95%. The disease-free survival rate for
Stage II and III cancers is slightly lower, depending on the size of the tumor
and when treatment is begun.

## Possible Complications

Testicular cancer may spread to other parts of the body. The most common sites
include the:

    * Liver
    * Lungs
    * Retroperitoneal area (the area near the kidneys behind the other organs in the belly area)
    * Brain
    * Bone

Complications of surgery can include:

    * Bleeding and infection after surgery
    * Infertility (if both testicles are removed)

Testicular cancer survivors are at increased risk of developing:

    * Second malignant tumors (second cancer occurring at different place in the body that develops after the treatment of first cancer)
    * Heart diseases
    * Metabolic syndrome

Also, long-term complications in cancer survivors may include:

    * Peripheral neuropathy
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Damage to the inner ear from medicines used to treat the cancer

If you think you may want to have children in the future, ask your provider
about methods to save your sperm for use at a later date.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of testicular cancer.

## Prevention

Performing a testicular self-examination (TSE) each month may help detect
testicular cancer at an early stage, before it spreads. Finding testicular
cancer early is important for successful treatment and survival. However,
testicular cancer screening is not recommended for the general population in
the United States.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - testes; Germ cell tumor; Seminoma testicular cancer; Nonseminoma
testicular cancer; Testicular neoplasm

## Patient Instructions

    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Einhorn LH. Testicular cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 200.

Friedlander TW, Ryan CJ, Small EJ, Torti F. Testicular cancer. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 86.

National Cancer Institute website. Testicular cancer treatment (PDQ) â
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/testicular/hp/testicular-
treatment-pdq#section/_85. Updated January 30, 2018. Accessed May 11, 2018.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularCancer_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

