Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007381.htm    
                                Description: Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy is surgery to remove all of the colon (large intestine) and rectum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007381.htm

# Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy is surgery to remove all of the colon
(large intestine) and rectum.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia right before your surgery. This will make
you be asleep and unable to feel pain.

For your proctocolectomy:

    * Your surgeon will make a surgical cut in your lower belly.
    * Then your surgeon will remove your large intestine and rectum.
    * Your surgeon may also look at your lymph nodes and may remove some of them. This is done if your surgery is being done to remove cancer. 

Next, your surgeon will create an ileostomy:

    * Your surgeon will make a small surgical cut in your belly. Most often this is made in the lower right part of your belly.
    * The last part of your small intestine (ileum) is pulled through this surgical cut. It is then sewn onto your belly.
    * This opening in your belly formed by your ileum is called the stoma. Stool will come out of this opening and collect in a drainage bag that will be attached to you. 

Some surgeons perform this operation using a camera. The surgery is done with
a few small surgical cuts, and sometimes a larger cut so that the surgeon can
assist by hand. The advantages of this surgery, which is called laparoscopy,
are a faster recovery, less pain, and only a few small cuts.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy surgery is done when other medical
treatment does not help problems with your large intestine.

It is most commonly done in people who have inflammatory bowel disease. This
includes ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease.

This surgery may also be done if you have:

    * Colon or rectum cancer
    * Familial polyposis
    * Bleeding in your intestine
    * Birth defects that have damaged your intestines
    * Intestinal damage from an accident or injury 

## Risks

Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy is most often safe. Your risk will depend
on your general overall health. Ask your health care provider about these
possible complications.

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection

Risks of having this surgery are:

    * Damage to nearby organs in the body and to the nerves in the pelvis
    * Infection, including in the lungs, urinary tract, and belly
    * Scar tissue may form in your belly and cause blockage of the small intestine
    * Your wound may break open or heal poorly
    * Poor absorption of nutrients from food
    * Phantom rectum, a feeling that your rectum is still there (similar to people who have amputation of a limb) 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider what medicines you are taking, even medicines,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription. Ask which medicines
you should still take on the day of your surgery.

Talk with your provider about these things before you have surgery:

    * Intimacy and sexuality
    * Sports
    * Work
    * Pregnancy 

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking medicines that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), Naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and others.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help.
    * Always tell your provider if you have a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illnesses before your surgery.

The day before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to drink only clear liquids, such as broth, clear juice, and water, after a certain time.
    * Follow the instructions you have been given about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * You may need to use enemas or laxatives to clear out your intestines. Your provider will give you instructions for this. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will be in the hospital for 3 to 7 days. You may have to stay longer if
you had this surgery because of an emergency.

You may be given ice chips to ease your thirst on the same day as your
surgery. By the next day, you will probably be allowed to drink clear liquids.
You will slowly be able to add thicker fluids and then soft foods to your diet
as your bowels begin to work again. You may be eating a soft diet 2 days after
your surgery.

While you are in the hospital, you will learn how to care for your ileostomy.

You will have an ileostomy pouch that is fitted for you. Drainage into your
pouch will be constant. You will need to wear the pouch at all times.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who have this surgery are able to do most activities they were
doing before their surgery. This includes most sports, travel, gardening,
hiking, and other outdoor activities, and most types of work.

You may need ongoing medical treatment if you have a chronic condition, such
as:

    * Crohn disease
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Bland diet
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Preventing falls
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## References

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![Colonic
Polyps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicPolyps_thumb.jpg)Colonic Polyps
_Read more_

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

