Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000074.htm    
                                Description: You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste (feces).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ileostomy - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000074.htm

# Ileostomy - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation
called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste
(feces).

Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through
the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of the
stoma and empty the pouch many times a day.

## What to Expect at Home

Your stoma is made from the lining of your intestine. It will be pink or red,
moist, and a little shiny.

Stool that comes from your ileostomy is thin or thick liquid, or it may be
pasty. It is not solid like the stool that comes from your colon. Foods you
eat, medicines you take, and other things may change how thin or thick your
stool is.

Some amount of gas is normal.

You will need to empty the pouch 5 to 8 times a day.

## Self-care

Ask your health care provider what you should be eating when you are
discharged from the hospital. You may be asked to follow a low-residue diet.

Talk with your provider if you have diabetes, heart disease, or any other
condition, and you need to eat or avoid certain foods.

You may take a bath or a shower as air, soap, and water will not hurt your
stoma and water will not go into the stoma. It is okay to do this with or
without your pouch on.

Drugs and medicines:

    * Liquid medicines may work better than solid ones. Take these when they are available.
    * Some drugs have a special (enteric) coating. Your body will not absorb these well. Ask your provider or pharmacist for other kinds of medicine. 

Talk with your provider if you are taking birth control pills. Your body may
not absorb them well enough to keep you from getting pregnant.

## Emptying and Cleaning Your Pouch

It is best to empty your pouch when it is about one-third to one-half full. It
is easier than when it is fuller, and there will be less odor.

To empty your pouch (remember -- stool may keep coming out of the stoma as you
do this):

    * Wear a clean pair of medical gloves.
    * Put some toilet paper in the toilet to keep splashing down. Or, you can flush as you empty the pouch to avoid splashing.
    * Sit far back on the seat or on one side of it. You can also stand or stoop over the toilet.
    * Hold the bottom of the pouch up.
    * Carefully roll the tail of your pouch over the toilet to empty it.
    * Clean the outside and inside of the pouch tail with toilet paper.
    * Close the pouch at the tail. 

Clean and rinse the inside and outside of the pouch.

    * Your ostomy nurse may give you a special soap to use.
    * Ask your nurse about spraying nonstick oil inside the pouch to keep stool from sticking to it. 

You will also need to know about:

    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma

## Blockages

Chew your foods well. This will help keep high-fiber foods from blocking your
stoma.

Some signs of blockage are sudden cramping in your belly, a swollen stoma,
nausea (with or without vomiting), and sudden increase of very watery output.

Drinking hot tea and other liquids may flush any foods that are blocking the
stoma.

There will be times when nothing comes out of your ileostomy for a little
while. This is normal.

Call your provider right away if your ileostomy bag stays empty longer than 4
to 6 hours. Your intestine may be blocked.

DO NOT just take a laxative if this problem happens.

Some foods that may block your stoma are raw pineapple, nuts and seeds,
celery, popcorn, corn, dried fruits (such as raisins), mushrooms, chunky
relishes, coconut, and some Chinese vegetables.

Tips for when no stool is coming from your stoma:

    * Try loosening the opening of the pouch if you think it is too tight.
    * Change your position. Try holding your knees up to your chest.
    * Take a warm bath or warm shower. 

## Loose Stools and Increased Output

Some foods will loosen your stools and can increase output after you eat them.
If you believe a certain food has caused a change in your stools, do not eat
it for a while, and then try again. These foods may make your stools looser:

    * Milk, fruit juice, and raw fruits and vegetables
    * Prune juice, licorice, large meals, spicy foods, beer, red wine, and chocolate 

Some foods will make your stool thicker. Some of these are applesauce, baked
potatoes, rice, bread, peanut butter, pudding, and baked apples.

Drink 8 to 10 glasses of fluid a day. Drink more when it is hot or when you
have been very active.

If you have diarrhea or your stools are looser or more watery:

    * Drink extra fluids with electrolytes (sodium, potassium). Drinks such as Gatorade, PowerAde, or Pedialyte contain electrolytes. Drinking soda, milk, juice, or tea will help you get enough liquids.
    * Try to eat foods that have potassium and sodium every day to keep your potassium and sodium levels from getting too low. Some examples of foods that contain potassium are bananas. Some high-sodium foods are salted snacks.
    * Pretzels may help reduce water loss in stool. They also have extra sodium.
    * DO NOT wait to get help. Diarrhea can be dangerous. Call your provider if it does not go away. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your stoma is swelling and is more than a half inch (1 centimeter) larger than normal.
    * Your stoma is pulling in, below the skin level.
    * Your stoma is bleeding more than normal.
    * Your stoma has turned purple, black, or white.
    * Your stoma is leaking often.
    * Your stoma does not seem to fit as well as it did before.
    * You have a skin rash, or the skin around your stoma is raw.
    * You have a discharge from the stoma that smells bad.
    * Your skin around your stoma is pushing out.
    * You have any kind of sore on the skin around your stoma.
    * You have any signs of being dehydrated (there is not enough water in your body). Some signs are dry mouth, urinating less often, and feeling lightheaded or weak.
    * You have diarrhea that is not going away. 

## Alternative Names

Standard ileostomy - discharge; Brooke ileostomy - discharge; Continent
ileostomy - discharge; Abdominal pouch - discharge; End ileostomy - discharge;
Ostomy - discharge; Crohn's disease - ileostomy discharge; Inflammatory bowel
disease - ileostomy discharge; Regional enteritis - ileostomy discharge;
Ileitis - ileostomy discharge; Granulomatous ileocolitis - ileostomy
discharge; IBD - ileostomy discharge; Ulcerative colitis - ileostomy discharge

## References

American Cancer Society website. Ileostomy guide.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/ileostomy.html. Updated June 12, 2017. Accessed August 28,
2018.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

