Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002942.htm    
                                Description: Colostomy is a surgical procedure that brings one end of the large intestine out through an opening (stoma) made in the abdominal wall. Stools moving through the intestine drain through the stoma into    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colostomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002942.htm

# Colostomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Colostomy is a surgical procedure that brings one end of the large intestine
out through an opening (stoma) made in the abdominal wall. Stools moving
through the intestine drain through the stoma into a bag attached to the
abdomen.

## Description

The procedure is usually done after:

    * Bowel resection
    * Injury to the bowel 

The colostomy may be short-term or permanent.

Colostomy is done while you are under general anesthesia (asleep and pain-
free). It may be done either with a large surgical cut in the abdomen or with
a small camera and several small cuts (laparoscopy).

The type of approach used depends on what other procedure needs to be done.
The surgical cut is usually made in the middle of the abdomen. The bowel
resection or repair is done as needed.

For the colostomy, one end of the healthy colon is brought out through an
opening made in the abdomen wall, usually on the left side. The edges of bowel
are stitched to the skin of opening. This opening is called a stoma. A bag
called a stoma appliance is placed around the opening to allow stool to drain.

Your colostomy may be short-term. If you have surgery on part of your large
intestine, a colostomy allows the other part of your intestine to rest while
you recover. Once your body has fully recovered from the first surgery, you
will have another surgery to reattach the ends of the large intestine. This is
usually done after 12 weeks.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Reasons a colostomy is done include:

    * Infection of the abdomen, such as perforated diverticulitis or an abscess.
    * Injury to the colon or rectum (for example, a gunshot wound).
    * Partial or complete blockage of the large bowel (intestinal obstruction).
    * Rectal or colon cancer.
    * Wounds or fistulas in the perineum. The area between the anus and vulva (women) or the anus and scrotum (men). 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks of colostomy include:

    * Bleeding inside your belly
    * Damage to nearby organs
    * Development of a hernia at the site of the surgical cut
    * Bowel protrudes through the stoma more than it should (prolapse of the colostomy)
    * Narrowing or blockage of the colostomy opening (stoma)
    * Scar tissue forming in the belly and causing intestinal blockage
    * Skin irritation
    * Wound breaking open 

## After the Procedure

You will be in the hospital for 3 to 7 days. You may have to stay longer if
your colostomy was done as an emergency procedure.

You will be allowed to slowly go back to your normal diet:

    * The same day as your surgery, you may be able to suck on ice chips to ease your thirst.
    * By the next day, you will probably be allowed to drink clear liquids.
    * Thicker fluids and then soft foods will be added as your bowels begin to work again. You may be eating normally within 2 days after surgery. 

The colostomy drains stool (feces) from the colon into the colostomy bag.
Colostomy stool is often softer and more liquid than stool that is passed
normally. The texture of stool depends on which part of the intestine was used
to form the colostomy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Before you are released from the hospital, an ostomy nurse will teach you
about diet and how to care for your colostomy.

## Alternative Names

Intestinal opening - stoma formation; Bowel surgery - colostomy creation;
Colectomy - colostomy; Colon cancer - colostomy; Rectal cancer - colostomy;
Diverticulitis - colostomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Large bowel resection - discharge

## Images

    * ![Colostomy - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7059t.jpg)Colostomy - Series

## References

Albers BJ, Lamon DJ. Colon repair/colostomy creation. In: Baggish MS, Karram
MM, eds. _Atlas of Pelvic Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 99.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ostomy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ostomy_thumb.jpg)Ostomy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

