Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000200.htm    
                                Description: Fiber is a substance found in plants. Dietary fiber, the kind you eat, is found in fruits, vegetables, and grains. When you are on a low-fiber diet, you will eat foods that do not have much fiber and are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low-fiber diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000200.htm

# Low-fiber diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fiber is a substance found in plants. Dietary fiber, the kind you eat, is
found in fruits, vegetables, and grains. When you are on a low-fiber diet, you
will eat foods that do not have much fiber and are easy to digest.

## Why You Need This Diet

Eating low-fiber foods helps slow your bowel movements. This helps decrease
diarrhea, gas, and bloating. Your doctor may recommend that you follow a low-
fiber diet when you have a flare-up of:

    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Diverticulitis
    * Crohn disease
    * Ulcerative colitis

Sometimes people are put on this diet temporarily after certain kinds of gut
surgery, such as an ileostomy or colostomy.

You may need to follow this diet only for a short time to give your bowel a
rest. Or, you may need to stay on the diet longer. Your doctor may refer you
to a dietitian for help with meal planning.

## What You Can Eat and Drink

A low-fiber diet can include foods you are used to eating, like cooked
vegetables, fruits, white breads, and meats. It does NOT include foods that
are higher in fiber or cause gas such as:

    * Beans and legumes
    * Whole grains
    * Many raw vegetables and fruits or their juices
    * Fruit and vegetable skins
    * Nuts and seeds
    * The connective tissues of meats 

This diet can provide your body's needed:

    * Protein
    * Fluid
    * Salt
    * Vitamins and minerals 

Your doctor or dietitian will likely tell you not to eat more than a certain
number of grams of fiber a day, such as 10 to 15 grams (g).

Below are some of the foods recommended for a low-fiber diet. It is still
possible for some of these foods to upset your system. Talk to your doctor or
dietitian if a food is making your problem worse.

Milk products:

    * You may have yogurt, kefir, cottage cheese, milk, pudding, creamy soup, or 1.5 ounces (43 g) of hard cheese. If you are lactose intolerant, use lactose-free products.
    * Avoid milk products with nuts, seeds, fruit, vegetables, or granola added to them. 

Breads and grains:

    * You may have refined white breads, dry cereals (such as puffed rice, corn flakes), farina, white pasta, and crackers. Make sure these foods have less than 2 grams of fiber per serving.
    * DO NOT eat whole-grain breads, crackers, cereals, whole-wheat pasta, brown rice, barley, oats, or popcorn. 

Vegetables: You may eat these vegetables raw:

    * Lettuce (shredded, in small quantities at first)
    * Cucumbers (without seeds or skin)
    * Zucchini 

You can eat these vegetables if they are well-cooked or canned (without
seeds). You can also drink juices made from them if they do not contain seeds
or pulp:

    * Yellow squash (without seeds)
    * Spinach
    * Pumpkin
    * Eggplant
    * Potatoes, without skin
    * Green beans
    * Wax beans
    * Asparagus
    * Beets
    * Carrots 

DO NOT eat any vegetable that is not on the list above. DO NOT eat vegetables
raw that are okay to eat cooked. DO NOT eat fried vegetables. Avoid vegetables
and sauces with seeds.

Fruits:

    * You may have fruit juices without pulp and many canned fruits or fruit sauces, such as applesauce. Avoid fruits canned in heavy syrup.
    * Raw fruits you can have are very ripe apricots, bananas and cantaloupe, honeydew melon, watermelon, nectarines, papayas, peaches, and plums. Avoid all other raw fruit.
    * Avoid canned and raw pineapple, fresh figs, berries, all dried fruits, fruit seeds, and prunes and prune juice. 

Protein:

    * You may eat cooked meat, fish, poultry, eggs, smooth peanut butter, and tofu. Make sure your meats are tender and soft, not chewy with gristle.
    * Avoid deli meats, hot dogs, sausage, crunchy peanut butter, nuts, beans, tempeh, and peas. 

Fats, oils, and sauces:

    * You may eat butter, margarine, oils, mayonnaise, whipped cream, and smooth sauces and dressings.
    * Smooth condiments are OK.
    * Don't eat very spicy or acidic foods and dressings.
    * Avoid chunky relishes and pickles.
    * Don't eat deep-fried foods. 

Other foods and drinks:

    * Don't eat desserts that have nuts, coconut, or fruits that are not OK to eat.
    * Make sure you are drinking enough fluids, particularly if you are having diarrhea.
    * Your doctor or dietitian will likely recommend that you also avoid caffeine and alcohol. 

## Keep in Mind

Choose foods that are lower in fat and added sugar when following a low-fiber
diet.

Because this diet does not have the variety of foods that your body normally
needs to stay healthy, you may have to take supplements, such as a multi-
vitamin. Check with your doctor or dietitian.

## Alternative Names

Fiber restricted diet; Crohn disease - low fiber diet; Ulcerative colitis -
low fiber diet; Surgery - low fiber diet

## References

Compass Group. Fiber-restricted diets. Manual of Clinical Nutrition
Management.
bscn2k15.weebly.com/uploads/1/2/9/2/12924787/manual_of_clinical_nutrition2013.pdf.
Updated 2013. Accessed August 2, 2018.

Katz DL, Friedman RSC, Lucan SC. Diet and common gastrointestinal problems.
In: Katz DL, Friedman RSC, Lucan SC, eds. _Nutrition in Clinical Practice: A
Comprehensive, Evidence-Based Manual for the Practitioner_. 3rd ed. New York,
NY: Wolters Kluwer Health; 2015:chap 18.

## Read More

    * Crohn disease
    * Diverticulitis
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Clear liquid diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
    * Full liquid diet
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge
    * Large bowel resection - discharge
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Crohn's Disease
    * Dietary Fiber
    * Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis
    * Ostomy
    * Ulcerative Colitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

