Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000227.htm    
                                Description: You have had an operation to create an ileostomy or colostomy. Your ileostomy or colostomy changes the way your body gets rid of waste (stool, feces, or &quot;poop&quot;).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000227.htm

# Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have had an operation to create an ileostomy or colostomy. Your ileostomy
or colostomy changes the way your body gets rid of waste (stool, feces, or
"poop").

You now have an opening in your belly called a stoma. Waste will pass through
the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of your
stoma and empty the pouch.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your ileostomy or colostomy.

## Questions

Will I be able to wear the same clothes as before?

What will the stool look like that comes from the ileostomy or colostomy? How
many times a day will I need to empty it? Should I expect an odor or smell?

Will I be able to travel?

How do I change the pouch?

    * How often do I need to change the pouch?
    * What supplies do I need, and where can I get them? How much do they cost?
    * What is the best way to empty the pouch?
    * How do I clean the bag afterward? 

Can I take showers? Can I take a bath? Do I need to wear the pouch when I
bathe?

Can I still play sports? Can I go back to work?

Do I need to change the medicines I am taking? Will birth control pills still
work?

What changes do I need to make in my diet?

What can I do if my stools are too loose? Are there foods that will make my
stools more firm?

What can I do if my stools are too hard? Are there foods that will make my
stools looser or more watery? Do I need to drink more liquids?

What should I do if nothing is coming out of the stoma into the pouch?

    * How long is too long?
    * Are there foods that may cause blockage of the stoma or opening?
    * How can I change my diet to prevent this problem? 

What should my stoma look like when it is healthy?

    * How should I care for the stoma every day? How often should I clean it? What types of tape, creams, or paste can I use on the stoma?
    * Does insurance cover the cost of ostomy supplies?
    * What should I do if there is bleeding from the stoma, if it appears red or swollen, or if there is a sore on the stoma? 

When should I call the provider?

## Alternative Names

Ostomy - what to ask your doctor; What to ask your doctor about ileostomy or
colostomy; Colostomy - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Large intestine anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9206t.jpg)Large intestine anatomy

## References

American Cancer Institute website. Ileostomy guide.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/ileostomy.html. Accessed March 29, 2019.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy

## Review Date 1/4/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

