Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000073.htm    
                                Description: You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste (stool, feces, or poop).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Types of ileostomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000073.htm

# Types of ileostomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation
called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste
(stool, feces, or poop).

Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through
the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of the
stoma and empty the pouch many times a day.

## What to Expect at Home

Stool that comes from your ileostomy is thin or thick liquid. It is not solid
like the stool that came from your rectum. You must take care of the skin
around the stoma.

You can still do normal activities, such as traveling, playing sports,
swimming, doing things with your family, and working. You will learn how to
take care of your stoma and pouch as part of your daily routine. Your
ileostomy will not shorten your life.

## What Does an Ileostomy Do?

An ileostomy is a surgically made opening on the skin of the belly. An
ileostomy replaces the rectum as the place where waste of the digestive system
(stool) leaves the body.

Most often the colon (large intestine) absorbs most of the water that you eat
and drink. With an ileostomy in place, the colon is no longer being used. This
means that the stool from your ileostomy has far more liquid than a typical
bowel movement from the rectum.

The stool now comes out from the ileostomy and empties into a pouch that is
attached to the skin around your stoma. The pouch is made to fit your body
well. You must wear it all the time.

The waste that collects will be liquid or pasty, depending on what you eat,
what medicines you take, and other things. Waste collects constantly, so you
will need to empty the pouch 5 to 8 times a day.

## Standard Ileostomy

The standard ileostomy is the most common kind of ileostomy that is done.

    * The end of the ileum (part of your small intestine) is pulled through the wall of your abdomen. 
    * Then it is sewn to your skin. 
    * It is normal that the ileostomy bulges out an inch (2.5 centimeters) or so. This makes the ileostomy like a spout, and it protects the skin from being irritated from the stool.

Most times, the stoma is placed in the right lower part of the belly on a flat
surface of normal, smooth skin.

## Continent Ileostomy (Abdominal Pouch)

A continent ileostomy is a different type of ileostomy. With a continent
ileostomy, a pouch that collects waste is made from part of the small
intestine. This pouch stays inside your body, and it connects to your stoma
through a valve that your surgeon creates. The valve prevents the stool from
constantly draining out, so that you usually do not need to wear a pouch.

Waste is drained by putting a tube (catheter) through the stoma a few times
each day.

Continent ileostomies are not done very often anymore. They can cause many
problems that need medical treatment, and sometimes they need to be redone.

## Alternative Names

Ileostomy - types; Standard ileostomy; Brooke ileostomy; Continent ileostomy;
Abdominal pouch; End ileostomy; Ostomy; Inflammatory bowel disease - ileostomy
and your ileostomy type; Crohn disease - ileostomy and your ileostomy type;
Ulcerative colitis - ileostomy and your ileostomy type

## References

American Cancer Society. Types of ileostomies and pouching systems.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/ileostomy/types.html. Updated June 12, 2017. Accessed January
17, 2019.

American Cancer Society. Ileostomy guide. www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-
and-side-effects/physical-side-effects/ostomies/ileostomy.html. Updated
December 2, 2014. Accessed January 30, 2017.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge

## Review Date 10/28/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

