Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000075.htm    
                                Description: You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed surgery called an ileostomy. The surgery changed the way your body gets rid of waste (feces).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Living with your ileostomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000075.htm

# Living with your ileostomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed surgery
called an ileostomy. The surgery changed the way your body gets rid of waste
(feces).

Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through
the stoma into a pouch that collects it.

You will have many new sensations in your body from the physical changes the
operation has caused. Over time you will need to learn how to deal with these
feelings.

## Talking With Others

You may feel sad, discouraged, ashamed, or alone after getting an ileostomy.
You may cry or become angry easily, or you may not have much patience.

Try talking with a close friend, your health care provider, or a family member
you feel close to. Ask your provider about seeing a mental health counselor.
There may also be a support group in your area for people who have had
ileostomies.

When you eat out or go to a party, remember it is normal for most people to
use the bathroom after they eat or drink. DO NOT feel embarrassed or self-
conscious if you need to use the bathroom to empty your pouch.

You may be nervous about talking about your ileostomy with other people in
your life. This is normal. You should not feel obliged to talk more than you
want to, or even at all if people are curious and ask too many questions.

If you have children, they may ask to see your stoma or pouch. Try to be
relaxed when you talk with them about it. Try to explain how it works and why
you have it. Answer their questions so they do not develop wrong ideas about
it on their own.

Attend a local ostomy support group if there is one in your area. You can go
by yourself, or take a spouse, family member, or friend with you. It may help
to talk to others who have ileostomies and share ideas. If you have a partner,
it can help for both of you to talk with other couples about how they live
with an ileostomy.

## Your Clothing

You should not need special clothes. Your pouch will mostly be flat. It cannot
be seen under clothes in most cases.

Underwear, pantyhose, stretch pants, and Jockey-type shorts will not get in
the way of your ostomy bag or stoma.

If you lost weight before your surgery from your illness, you may gain weight
afterward. You may need to wear bigger clothes.

## Going Back to Work and Day-to-Day Life

Your provider will tell you when you can go back to work. Ask your provider
what activities you can do.

People with ileostomies can do most jobs. Ask your provider if your type of
work is safe to do. As with all major surgeries, it will take time for you to
get stronger after your operation. Ask your provider for a letter you can give
to your employer that explains why you need time off work.

It is a good idea to tell your employer, and maybe even a friend at work,
about your ileostomy.

Heavy lifting may harm your stoma. A sudden blow to the stoma or pouch may
also harm it.

## Being Intimate With Your Partner

You and your partner will probably have worries about your ileostomy. You may
both feel uncomfortable about it. Things may not go smoothly when you begin
being intimate again.

Contact between your body and your partner's body should not harm the ostomy.
The ostomy will not have a bad odor if it is tightly sealed. To feel more
secure, ask your ostomy nurse for a special wrap that may help protect your
ostomy.

Talking openly about your feelings will help intimacy get better over time.

## Sports

An ostomy should not keep you from being active. People with ostomies:

    * Run long distance
    * Lift weights
    * Ski
    * Swim
    * Play most other sports

Ask your provider which sports you can take part in once you get your strength
back.

Many providers do not recommend contact sports because of possible injury to
the stoma from a severe blow, or because the pouch may slip, but special
protection can prevent these problems.

Weightlifting could cause a hernia at the stoma.

You can swim with your pouch in place. These tips may help:

    * Choose bathing suit colors or patterns that will hide your ostomy.
    * Women can get a bathing suit that has a special lining, or they can wear stretch panties under their bathing suit to hold the pouch in place.
    * Men can wear bike shorts underneath their bathing suit, or wear swim trunks and a tank top.
    * Always empty your pouch before swimming. 

## Alternative Names

Standard ileostomy - living with; Brooke ileostomy - living with; Continent
ileostomy - living with; Abdominal pouch - living with; End ileostomy - living
with; Ostomy - living with; Crohn's disease - living with; Inflammatory bowel
disease - living with; Regional enteritis - living with; Ileitis - living
with; Granulomatous ileocolitis - living with; IBD - living with; Ulcerative
colitis - living with

## References

American Cancer Society website. Ileostomy guide.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/ileostomy/management.html. Updated June 12, 2017. Accessed
August 28, 2018.

American Cancer Society website. Living with an ostomy.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/stomas-or-ostomies/telling-others.html. Updated June 12,
2017. Accessed August 28, 2018.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Ostomy surgery of the bowel. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-
diseases/ostomy-surgery-bowel. Updated August 2014. Accessed August 29, 2018.Â

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

