Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000204.htm    
                                Description: Your ostomy pouch is a heavy-duty plastic bag that you wear outside your body to collect your stool. Using an ostomy pouch is the best way to handle bowel movements after certain kinds of surgery on the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Changing your ostomy pouch

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000204.htm

# Changing your ostomy pouch

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your ostomy pouch is a heavy-duty plastic bag that you wear outside your body
to collect your stool. Using an ostomy pouch is the best way to handle bowel
movements after certain kinds of surgery on the colon or small intestine.

You'll need to learn how to change your ostomy pouch. Follow any specific
instructions your nurse gives you on changing the pouch. Use the information
below as a reminder of what to do.

## Your Ostomy Pouch

Your stool may be liquid or solid, depending on the kind of surgery you had.
You may need your ostomy for just a short time. Or, you may need it for the
rest of your life.

The ostomy pouch attaches to your belly, away from your belt line. It will be
hidden under your clothing. The stoma is the opening in your skin where the
pouch attaches.

Usually you can do your normal activities, but you will have to change your
diet a bit and watch for skin soreness. The pouches are odor-free, and they do
not allow gas or stool to leak out when they are worn correctly.

Your nurse will teach you how to care for your ostomy pouch and how to change
it. You will need to empty it when it is about 1/3 full, and change it about
every 2 to 4 days, or as often as your nurse tells you. After some practice,
changing your pouch will get easier.

## Getting Your Supplies Ready

Collect your supplies before you start. You will need:

    * A new pouch (a 1-piece system, or 2-piece system that has a wafer)
    * A pouch clip
    * Scissors
    * A clean towel or paper towels
    * Stoma powder
    * Stoma paste or a ring seal
    * Skin wipes
    * A measuring card and a pen

Many medical supply stores will deliver right to your home. Your nurse will
get you started with the supplies you will need. After that, you will order
your own supplies.

## Changing Your Ostomy Pouch

The bathroom is a good place to change your pouch. Empty your used pouch into
the toilet first, if it needs emptying.

Gather your supplies. If you have a 2-piece pouch, be sure you have the
special ring seal that sticks to your skin around the stoma.

Follow these steps to prevent infection:

    * Wash your hands with soap and water. Be sure to wash between your fingers and under your fingernails. Dry with a clean towel or paper towels.
    * If you have a 2-piece pouch, press gently on the skin around your stoma with 1 hand, and remove the seal with your other hand. (If it is hard to remove the seal, you can use special pads. Ask your nurse about these.)
    * Remove the pouch.
    * Keep the clip. Put the old ostomy pouch in a bag and then place the bag in the trash.
    * Clean the skin around your stoma with warm soap and water and a clean washcloth or paper towels. Dry with a clean towel. 

Check and seal your skin:

    * Check your skin. A little bleeding is normal. Your skin should be pink or red. Call your doctor if it is purple, black, or blue.
    * Wipe around the stoma with the special skin wipe. If your skin is a little wet, sprinkle some of the stoma powder on just the wet or open part.
    * Lightly pat the special wipe on top of the powder and your skin again.
    * Let the area air-dry for 1 to 2 minutes. 

Measure your stoma:

    * Use your measuring card to find the circle size that matches the size of your stoma. DO NOT touch the card to your skin.
    * If you have a 2-piece system, trace the circle size onto the back of the ring seal and cut out this size. Make sure the cut edges are smooth. 

Attach the pouch:

    * Attach the pouch to the ring seal if you have a 2-piece ostomy system.
    * Peel the paper off the ring seal.
    * Squirt stoma paste around the hole in the seal, or place the special stoma ring around the opening.
    * Place the seal evenly around the stoma. Hold it in place for a few minutes. Try holding a warm washcloth over the seal to help make it stick to your skin.
    * If you need them, put cotton balls or special gel packs in your pouch to keep it from leaking.
    * Attach the pouch clip or use Velcro to close the pouch.
    * Wash your hands again with warm soap and water. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your stoma smells bad, there is pus draining from it, or it is bleeding a lot.
    * Your stoma is changing in some way. It is a different color, it is getting longer, or it is pulling into your skin.
    * The skin around your stoma is bulging.
    * There is blood in your stool.
    * You have a fever of 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) or higher, or you have chills.
    * You feel sick to your stomach, or you are vomiting.
    * Your stools are looser than normal.
    * You have a lot of pain in your belly, or you are bloated (puffy or swollen).
    * You have had no gas or stool for 4 hours.
    * You have a big increase in the amount of stool collecting in your pouch. 

## Alternative Names

Ostomy - pouch change; Colostomy - pouch change

## References

American College of Surgeons, Division of Education website. Ostomy skills:
emptying and changing the pouch.
www.facs.org/~/media/files/education/patient%20ed/empty%20pouch.ashx. Updated
2015. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Bowel elimination. In:
Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical Nursing
Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY: Pearson; 2016:chap
23.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Full liquid diet
    * Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge
    * Large bowel resection - discharge

## Review Date 11/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

