Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000070.htm    
                                Description: You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste (stool, feces, or poop).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ileostomy and your diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000070.htm

# Ileostomy and your diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation
called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste
(stool, feces, or poop).

Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through
the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of the
stoma and empty the pouch many times a day.

People who have had an ileostomy can most often eat a normal diet. But some
foods may cause problems. Foods that may be fine for some people may cause
trouble for others.

## Self-care

Your pouch should be sealed well enough to prevent any odor from leaking. You
may notice more odor when you empty your pouch after you eat certain foods.
Some of these foods are onions, garlic, broccoli, asparagus, cabbage, fish,
some cheeses, eggs, baked beans, Brussels sprouts, and alcohol.

Doing these things will keep down the odor:

    * Eating parsley, yogurt, and buttermilk.
    * Keeping your ostomy devices clean.
    * Using special deodorants or adding vanilla oil or peppermint extract to your pouch before closing it. Ask your health care provider about this. 

Control gas, if it is a problem:

    * Eat on a regular schedule.
    * Eat slowly.
    * Try not to swallow any air with your food.
    * DO NOT chew gum or drink through a straw. Both will make you swallow air.
    * DO NOT eat cucumbers, radishes, sweets, or melons.
    * DO NOT drink beer or soda, or other carbonated drinks. 

Try eating 5 or 6 small meals a day.

    * This will help keep you from getting too hungry.
    * Eat some solid foods before you drink anything if your stomach is empty. This may help decrease gurgling sounds.
    * Drink 6 to 8 cups (1.5 to 2 liters) of fluids every day. You can get dehydrated more easily if you have an ileostomy, so talk to your provider about the right amount of fluid for you.
    * Chew your food well. 

It is OK to try new foods, but try only one at a time. That way, if you have
any trouble, you will know which food caused the problem.

Over-the-counter gas medicine can also help if you have too much gas.

Try not to gain weight unless you are underweight because of your surgery or
any other illness. Excess weight is not healthy for you, and it may change how
your ostomy works or fits.

When you feel sick to your stomach:

    * Take small sips of water or tea.
    * Eat a soda cracker or a saltine. 

Some red foods may make you think you are bleeding.

    * Tomato juice, cherry-flavored drinks, and cherry gelatin may make your stool reddish.
    * Red peppers, pimientos, and beets may show up as small red pieces in your stool or make your stool look red.
    * If you have eaten these, it is most likely OK if your stools look red. But, call your provider if the redness does not go away. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your stoma is swollen and is more than a half inch (1 centimeter) larger than normal.
    * Your stoma is pulling in, below the skin level.
    * Your stoma is bleeding more than normal.
    * Your stoma has turned purple, black, or white.
    * Your stoma is leaking often.
    * You have to change the appliance every day or two.
    * Your stoma does not seem to fit as well as it did before.
    * You have a skin rash, or the skin around your stoma is raw.
    * You have a discharge from the stoma that smells bad.
    * Your skin around your stoma is bulging out.
    * You have any kind of sore on the skin around your stoma.
    * You have any signs of being dehydrated (there is not enough water in your body). Some signs are dry mouth, urinating less often, and feeling lightheaded or weak.
    * You have diarrhea that is not going away. 

## Alternative Names

Standard ileostomy - diet; Brooke ileostomy - diet; Continent ileostomy -
diet; Abdominal pouch - diet; End ileostomy - diet; Ostomy - diet;
Inflammatory bowel disease - ileostomy and your diet; Crohn disease -
ileostomy and your diet; Ulcerative colitis - ileostomy and your diet

## References

American Cancer Society. Caring for an ileostomy.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/ileostomy/management.html. Updated June 12, 2017. Accessed
January 17, 2019.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 10/28/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

