Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000069.htm    
                                Description: Your child had an injury or disease in their digestive system and needed an operation called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ileostomy and your child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000069.htm

# Ileostomy and your child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had an injury or disease in their digestive system and needed an
operation called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your child's body
gets rid of waste (stool, feces, or poop).

Now your child has an opening called a stoma in their belly. Waste will pass
through the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You and your child will need
to take care of the stoma and empty the pouch many times a day.

## Introduction

Seeing your child's ileostomy for the first time may be hard. Many parents
feel guilty or that it is their fault when their children get ill and need
this operation.

Parents also worry about how their child will be accepted now and later in
life.

This is a difficult transition. But, if you are relaxed and positive about
your child's ileostomy from the beginning, your child will have a much easier
time with it. Talking with friends, family members, or a mental health
counselor may help you.

## Caring for Your Child's Ileostomy

Your child will need help and support. Begin by having them help you empty and
change their pouch. After time, older children will be able to gather supplies
and change and empty their own pouch. Even a young child can learn to empty
the pouch by themselves.

Be prepared for some trial and error in taking care of your child's ileostomy.

## Possible Complications

It is normal to have some problems with your child's ileostomy. Some common
problems are:

    * Your child may have trouble with some foods. Some foods lead to loose stools (diarrhea) and some can increase gas production. Talk to your health care provider about food choices that will help avoid these problems.
    * Your child may have skin problems near the ileostomy.
    * Your child's pouch may leak or get messy.

Help your child understand how important it is to take good care of their
ileostomy, and to clean up the bathroom after ileostomy care.

## Living with an Ileostomy

Children do not like to be different from their friends and classmates. Your
child may have many difficult emotions, including frustration and
embarrassment.

You may see some changes in your child's behavior at first. Sometimes
teenagers have a harder time accepting their ileostomy than younger children.
Try to keep a positive attitude and use humor when it fits the situation. You
being open and natural will help your child's behavior stay positive.

Help your child learn how to handle problems with their ileostomy on their
own.

Help your child decide who they want to talk to about their ileostomy. Talk
with your child about what they will say. Be firm, calm, and open. It can help
to do a role play, where you pretend you are one of the people your child has
decided to tell about their ileostomy. Ask questions that person might ask.
This will help your child prepare to talk with other people.

Your child should feel that you understand what it is like to have an
ileostomy. Help them learn to take care of themselves, and let them know they
will be able to live a full life.

When problems do happen, stay calm and ask for help from your child's
provider.

## Returning to School and Activities

Be flexible with your child as they adjust to school and everyday situations.

When your child returns to school, have a plan to deal with problems or
emergencies. If your child knows what to do when there is leakage, it will
help them avoid embarrassing situations.

Your child should be able to take part in recess and sports, go camping and
have other overnight trips, and do all other school and after-school
activities.

## Alternative Names

Standard ileostomy and your child; Brooke ileostomy and your child; Continent
ileostomy and your child; Abdominal pouch and your child; End ileostomy and
your child; Ostomy and your child; Inflammatory bowel disease - ileostomy and
your child; Crohn disease - ileostomy and your child; Ulcerative colitis -
ileostomy and your child

## References

American Cancer Society. Caring for an ileostomy.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/ileostomy/management.html. Updated June 12, 2017. Accessed
January 17, 2019.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 10/28/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

