Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000072.htm    
                                Description: You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste (stool, feces, or poop).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ileostomy - changing your pouch

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000072.htm

# Ileostomy - changing your pouch

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation
called an ileostomy. The operation changed the way your body gets rid of waste
(stool, feces, or poop).

Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through
the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of the
stoma and empty the pouch many times a day.

## When to Change Your Pouch

Change your pouch every 5 to 8 days. If you have itching or leakage, change it
right away.

If you have a pouch system made of 2 pieces (a pouch and a wafer) you can use
2 different pouches during the week. Wash and rinse the pouch not being used,
and let it dry well.

Choose a time of day when there is less stool output from your stoma. Early in
the morning before you eat or drink anything (or at least 1 hour after a meal)
is best.

You may need to change your pouch more often if:

    * You have been sweating more than usual from hot weather or exercise.
    * You have oily skin.
    * Your stool output is more watery than usual. 

## Steps for Changing Your Pouch

Wash your hands well and have all equipment ready. Put on a clean pair of
medical gloves.

Gently remove the pouch. Push the skin away from the seal. DO NOT pull the
ostomy away from your skin.

Wash your stoma and the skin around it carefully with soapy water.

    * Use mild soap, such as Ivory, Safeguard, or Dial.
    * DO NOT use a soap that has perfume or lotion added to it.
    * Look carefully at your stoma and the skin around it for any changes. Allow your stoma to dry completely before connecting the new pouch. 

Trace the shape of your stoma onto the back of the new pouch and barrier or
wafer (wafers are part of a 2-piece pouch system).

    * Use a stoma guide with different sizes and shapes, if you have one.
    * Or, draw the shape of your stoma on a piece of paper. You may want to cut out your drawing and hold it up to your stoma to make sure it is the right size and shape. The edges of the opening should be close to the stoma, but they should not touch the stoma itself. 

Trace this shape onto the back of your new pouch or wafer. Then cut the wafer
to the shape.

Use skin barrier powder or paste around the stoma, if your health care
provider has recommended this.

    * If the stoma is at or below the level of your skin, or if the skin around your stoma is uneven, using the paste will help seal it better.
    * The skin around your stoma should be dry and smooth. There should be no wrinkles in the skin around the stoma. 

Remove the backing from the pouch. Make sure the opening of the new pouch is
centered over the stoma and pressed firmly onto your skin.

    * Hold your hand over the pouch and barrier for about 30 seconds after you have placed it. This will help seal it better.
    * Ask your provider about using tape around the sides of the pouch or wafer to help seal them better. 

Fold the bag and secure it.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your stoma is swelling and is more than a half inch (1 centimeter) larger than normal.
    * Your stoma is pulling in, below the skin level.
    * Your stoma is bleeding more than normal.
    * Your stoma has turned purple, black, or white.
    * Your stoma is leaking often.
    * Your stoma does not seem to fit as well as it did before.
    * You have to change the appliance every day or two.
    * You have a skin rash, or the skin around your stoma is raw.
    * You have a discharge from the stoma that smells bad.
    * Your skin around your stoma is pushing out.
    * You have any kind of sore on the skin around your stoma.
    * You have any signs of being dehydrated (there is not enough water in your body). Some signs are dry mouth, urinating less often, and feeling lightheaded or weak.
    * You have diarrhea that is not going away. 

## Alternative Names

Standard ileostomy - pouch change; Brooke ileostomy - pouch change; Continent
ileostomy - changing; Abdominal pouch changing; End ileostomy - pouch change;
Ostomy - pouch change; Inflammatory bowel disease - ileostomy and your pouch
change; Crohn disease - ileostomy and your pouch change; Ulcerative colitis -
ileostomy and your pouch change

## References

American Cancer Society. Caring for an ileostomy.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/ileostomy/management.html. Updated June 12, 2017. Accessed
January 17, 2019.

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Large bowel resection - discharge
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

