Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000071.htm    
                                Description: You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation called an ileostomy. The operation changes the way your body gets rid of waste (stool, feces, or poop).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ileostomy - caring for your stoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000071.htm

# Ileostomy - caring for your stoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had an injury or disease in your digestive system and needed an operation
called an ileostomy. The operation changes the way your body gets rid of waste
(stool, feces, or poop).

Now you have an opening called a stoma in your belly. Waste will pass through
the stoma into a pouch that collects it. You will need to take care of your
stoma and empty the pouch many times a day.

## About Your Stoma

Things to know about your stoma include:

    * Your stoma is the lining of your intestine.
    * It will be pink or red, moist, and a little shiny.
    * Stomas are most often round or oval.
    * A stoma is very delicate.
    * Most stomas stick out a little over the skin, but some are flat.
    * You may see a little mucus. Your stoma may bleed a little when you clean it.
    * The skin around your stoma should be dry. 

The feces that come out of the stoma can be very irritating to the skin. So it
is important to take special care of the stoma to avoid damage to the skin.

## Stoma Care

After surgery, the stoma will be swollen. It will shrink over the next several
weeks.

The skin around your stoma should look like it did before surgery. The best
way to protect your skin is by:

    * Using a bag or pouch with the correct size opening, so waste does not leak
    * Taking good care of the skin around your stoma 

Stoma appliances are either 2-piece or 1-piece sets. A 2-piece set consists of
a baseplate (or wafer) and pouch. A baseplate is the part that sticks to the
skin and protects it against irritation from feces. The second piece is the
pouch that feces empty into. The pouch attaches to the baseplate, similar to a
Tupperware cover. In a 1-piece set, the baseplate and appliance is all one
piece. The baseplate usually needs to be changed only once or twice a week.

To care for your skin:

    * Wash your skin with warm water and dry it well before you attach the pouch.
    * Avoid skin care products that contain alcohol. These can make your skin too dry.
    * DO NOT use products that contain oil on the skin around your stoma. Doing so can make it hard to attach the pouch to your skin.
    * Use fewer, special skin care products to make skin problems less likely. 

If you have hair on the skin around your stoma, your pouch may not stick.
Removing the hair may help.

    * Ask your ostomy nurse about the best way to shave the area.
    * If you use a safety razor and soap or shaving cream, be sure to rinse your skin well after you shave the area.
    * You can also use trimming scissors, electric shaver, or have laser treatment to remove the hair.
    * DO NOT use a straight edge.
    * Be careful to protect your stoma if you remove the hair around it. 

Carefully look at your stoma and the skin around it every time you change your
pouch or barrier. If the skin around your stoma is red or wet, your pouch may
not be sealed well on your stoma.

Sometimes the adhesive, skin barrier, paste, tape, or pouch may damage the
skin. This may happen when you first start using a stoma, or it may happen
after you have been using it for months, or even years.

If this happens:

    * Ask your health care provider about medicine to treat your skin.
    * Call your provider if it is does not get better when you treat it. 

If your stoma is leaking, your skin will get sore.

Be sure to treat any skin redness or skin changes right away, when the problem
is still small. DO NOT allow the sore area to become larger or more irritated
before asking your doctor about it.

If your stoma becomes longer than usual (sticks out from the skin more), try a
cold compress, like ice wrapped in a towel, to make it go in.

You should never stick anything into your stoma, unless your doctor tells you
to.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your stoma is swollen and is more than a 1/2 inch (1 cm) larger than normal.
    * Your stoma is pulling in, below the skin level.
    * Your stoma is bleeding more than normal.
    * Your stoma has turned purple, black, or white.
    * Your stoma is leaking often or draining fluid.
    * Your stoma does not seem to fit as well as it did before.
    * You have to change the appliance once every day or two.
    * You have a discharge from the stoma that smells bad.
    * You have any signs of being dehydrated (there is not enough water in your body). Some signs are dry mouth, urinating less often, and feeling lightheaded or weak.
    * You have diarrhea that is not going away. 

Call your provider if the skin around your stoma:

    * Pulls back
    * Is red or raw
    * Has a rash
    * Is dry
    * Hurts or burns
    * Swells or pushes out
    * Bleeds
    * Itches
    * Has white, gray, brown, or dark red bumps on it
    * Has bumps around a hair follicle that are filled with pus
    * Has sores with uneven edges 

Also call if you:

    * Have less waste than usual in your pouch
    * Have a fever
    * Experience any pain
    * Have any questions or concerns about your stoma or skin 

## Alternative Names

Standard ileostomy - stoma care; Brooke ileostomy - stoma care; Continent
ileostomy - stoma care; Abdominal pouch - stoma care; End ileostomy - stoma
care; Ostomy - stoma care; Crohn disease - stoma care; Inflammatory bowel
disease - stoma care; Regional enteritis - stoma care; IBD - stoma care

## References

Araghizadeh F. Ileostomy, colostomy, and pouches. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

Lyon CC. Stoma care. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson I,
eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 233.

Tam KW, Lai JH, Chen HC, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of
randomized controlled trials comparing interventions for peristomal skin care.
_Ostomy Wound Manage_. 2014;60(10):26-33. PMID: 25299815
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25299815.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Large bowel resection
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Large bowel resection - discharge
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## Review Date 4/16/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

