Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000420.htm    
                                Description: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic form of arthritis. It mostly affects the bones and joints at the base of the spine where it connects with the pelvis. These joints can become swollen and inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ankylosing spondylitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000420.htm

# Ankylosing spondylitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic form of arthritis. It mostly affects
the bones and joints at the base of the spine where it connects with the
pelvis. These joints can become swollen and inflamed. Over time, the affected
spinal bones may join together.

## Causes

AS is the main member of a family of similar forms of arthritis called
spondyloarthritis. Other members include psoriatic arthritis, arthritis of
inflammatory bowel disease and reactive arthritis. The family of arthritis
appears to be quite common and affects up to 1 in 100 people.

The cause of AS is unknown. Genes seem to play a role. Most people with AS are
positive for the HLA-B27 gene.

The disease often begins between ages 20 and 40, but it may begin before age
10. It affects more males than females.

## Symptoms

AS starts with low back pain that comes and goes. Low back pain becomes
present most of the time as the condition progresses.

    * Pain and stiffness are worse at night, in the morning, or when you are less active. The discomfort may wake you from sleep.
    * The pain often gets better with activity or exercise.
    * Back pain may begin in the between the pelvis and spine (sacroiliac joints). Over time, it may involve all or part of the spine.
    * Your lower spine may become less flexible. Over time, you may stand in a hunched forward position. 

Other parts of your body that may be affected include:

    * The joints of the shoulders, knees and ankles, which may be swollen and painful
    * The joints between your ribs and breastbone, so that you cannot expand your chest fully
    * The eye, which may have swelling and redness 

Fatigue is also a common symptom.

![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1116.jpg)

Less common symptoms include:

    * Slight fever 

AS may occur with other conditions, such as:

    * Psoriasis
    * Ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease
    * Recurring or chronic eye inflammation (iritis)

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

    * CBC
    * ESR (a measure of inflammation)
    * HLA-B27 antigen (which detects the gene linked to ankylosing spondylitis)
    * Rheumatoid factor (which should be negative)
    * X-rays of the spine and pelvis
    * MRI of the spine and pelvis 

## Treatment

Your health care provider may prescribe medicines such as NSAIDs to reduce
swelling and pain.

    * Some NSAIDs can be bought over-the-counter (OTC). These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
    * Other NSAIDs are prescribed by your provider.
    * Talk to your provider or pharmacist before daily long-term use ofÂ any over-the-counter NSAID.

You may also need stronger medicines to control pain and swelling, such as:

    * Corticosteroid therapy (such as prednisone) used for short periods of time
    * Sulfasalazine
    * A biologic TNF-inhibitor (such as etanercept, adalimumab, infliximab, certolizumab or golimumab)
    * A biologic inhibitor of IL17A, secukinumab

Surgery, such as hip replacement, may be done if pain or joint damage is
severe.

Exercises can help improve posture and breathing. Lying flat on your back at
night can help you keep a normal posture.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The course of the disease is hard to predict. Over time, signs and symptoms of
AS flareup (relapse) and quiet down (remission). Most people are able to
function well unless they have a lot of damage to the hips or the spine.
Joining a support group of others with the same problem may often help.

Treatment with NSAIDS often reduces the pain and swelling. Treatment with TNF
inhibitors early in the disease appears to slow progression of the spine
arthritis.

Rarely, people with ankylosing spondylitis may have problems with:

    * Psoriasis, a chronic skin disorder 
    * Inflammation in the eye (iritis)
    * Inflammation in the intestine (colitis)
    * Abnormal heart rhythm
    * Scarring or thickening of the lung tissue
    * Scarring or thickening of the aortic heart valve
    * Spinal cord injury after a fall

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis
    * You have ankylosing spondylitis and develop new symptoms during treatment 

## Alternative Names

Spondylitis; Spondyloarthritis

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Cervical spondylosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9852t.jpg)Cervical spondylosis

## References

Baeten D, Sieper J, Braun J, et al. Secukinumab, an interleukin-17A inhibitor,
in ankylosing spondylitis. _N Engl J Med_. 2015; 373(26):2534-2548. PMID:
26699169Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26699169.

Callhoff J, Sieper J, WeiÃ A, Zink A, Listing J. Efficacy of TNFa blockers in
patients with ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial
spondyloarthritis: a meta-analysis. _Ann Rheum Dis_. 2015;74(6):1241-1248.
PMID: 24718959 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24718959.

Ward MM, Deodhar A, Akl EA, et al. American College of
Rheumatology/Spondylitis Association of America/Spondyloarthritis Research and
Treatment Network. 2015 recommendations for the treatment of ankylosing
spondylitis and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis. _Arthritis
Rheumatol_. 2016;68(2):282-298. PMID: 26401991
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26401991.

Werner BC, Feuchtbaum E, Shen FH, Samartzis D. Ankylosing spondylitis of the
cervical spine. In: Shen FH, Samartzis D, Fessler RG, eds. _Textbook of the
Cervical Spine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 28.

van der Linden S, Brown M, Kennna T, Maksymowych W, Robinson P. Ankylosing
spondylitis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR,
eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 75.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 07/12/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Ankylosing
Spondylitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkylosingSpondylitis_thumb.jpg)Ankylosing
Spondylitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

