Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003551.htm    
                                Description: HLA-B27 is a blood test to look for a protein that is found on the surface of white blood cells. The protein is called human leukocyte antigen B27 (HLA-B27).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HLA-B27 antigen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003551.htm

# HLA-B27 antigen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

HLA-B27 is a blood test to look for a protein that is found on the surface of
white blood cells. The protein is called human leukocyte antigen B27
(HLA-B27).

Human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) are proteins that help the body's immune
system tell the difference between its own cells and foreign, harmful
substances. They are made from instructions by inherited genes.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

In most cases, no special steps are needed to prepare for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, you may feel moderate pain, or only
a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order this test to help determine the cause of
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling. The test may be done along with other
tests, including:

    * C-reactive protein
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Rheumatoid factor
    * X-rays 

HLA testing  is also used to match donated tissue with a person's tissue who
is getting an organ transplant. For example, it may be done when a person
needs a kidney transplant or bone marrow transplant.

## Normal Results

A normal (negative) result means HLA-B27 is absent.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test means HLA-B27 is present. It suggests a greater-than-average
risk for developing or having certain autoimmune disorders. An autoimmune
disorder is a condition that occurs when the immune system mistakenly attacks
and destroys healthy body tissue.

A positive result can help your provider make a diagnosis of a form of
arthritis called spondyloarthritis. This kind of arthritis includes the
following disorders:

    * Ankylosing spondylitis
    * Arthritis related to Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis
    * Psoriatic arthritis (arthritis associated with psoriasis)
    * Reactive arthritis
    * Sacroiliitis (inflammation of the sacroiliac joint)
    * Uveitis

If you have symptoms or signs of spondyloarthritis, a positive HLA-B27 test
may help confirm the diagnosis. However, HLA-B27 is found in some normal
people and does not always mean you have a disease.

## Risks

Risks from having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Human leukocyte antigen B27; Ankylosing spondylitis-HLA; Psoriatic arthritis-
HLA; Reactive arthritis-HLA

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) B-27 - blood. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:654-655.

Fagoaga OR. Human leukocyte antigen: the major histocompatibility complex of
man. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap
49.

Inman RD. The spondyloarthropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 265.

McPherson RA, Massey HD. Overview of the immune system and immunologic
disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap
43.

Reveille JD. Spondyloarthritis. In: Rich RR, Fleisher TA, Shearer WT,
Schroeder HW, Few AJ, Weyand CM, eds. _Clinical Immunology: Principles and
Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 57.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ankylosing
Spondylitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkylosingSpondylitis_thumb.jpg)Ankylosing
Spondylitis _Read more_

![Infectious
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousArthritis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Arthritis _Read more_

![Organ
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OrganTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Organ
Transplantation _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

