Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000767.htm    
                                Description: Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a movement disorder that occurs from damage to certain nerve cells in the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Progressive supranuclear palsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000767.htm

# Progressive supranuclear palsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a movement disorder that occurs from
damage to certain nerve cells in the brain.

## Causes

PSP is a condition that causes symptoms similar to those of Parkinson disease.

It involves damage to many cells of the brain. Many areas are affected,
including the part of the brainstem where cells that control eye movement are
located. The area of the brain that controls steadiness when you walk is also
affected. The frontal lobes of the brain are also affected, leading to
personality changes.

The cause of the damage to the brain cells is unknown. PSP gets worse over
time.

People with PSP have deposits in brain tissues that look like those found in
people with Alzheimer disease. There is a loss of tissue in most areas of the
brain and in some parts of the spinal cord.

The disorder is most often seen in people over 60 years old, and is somewhat
more common in men.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Loss of balance, repeated falls
    * Lunging forward when moving, or fast walking
    * Bumping into objects or people
    * Changes in expressions of the face
    * Deeply lined face
    * Eye and vision problems such as different sized pupils, difficulty moving the eyes (supranuclear ophthalmoplegia), lack of control over the eyes, problems keeping the eyes open 
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Tremors, jaw or face jerks or spasms 
    * Mild-to-moderate dementia
    * Personality changes
    * Slow or stiff movements
    * Speech difficulties, such as low voice volume, not able to say words clearly, slow speech
    * Stiffness and rigid movement in the neck, middle of the body, arms, and legs

## Exams and Tests

An exam of the nervous system (neurologic examination) may show:

    * Dementia that is getting worse
    * Difficulty walking
    * Limited eye movements, especially up and down movements
    * Normal vision, hearing, feeling, and control of movement
    * Stiff and uncoordinated movements like those of Parkinson disease 

The health care provider may do the following tests to rule out other
diseases:

    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) might show shrinking of the brainstem (hummingbird sign)
    * PET scan of the brain will show changes in the front of the brain 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control symptoms. There is no known cure for PSP.

Medicines such as levodopa may be tried. These drugs raise the level of a
brain chemical called dopamine. Dopamine is involved in the control of
movement. The medicines may reduce some symptoms, such as rigid limbs or slow
movements for a time. But they are usually not as effective as they are for
Parkinson disease.

Many people with PSP will eventually need around-the-clock care and monitoring
as they lose brain functions.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment sometimes can reduce symptoms for a while, but the condition will
get worse. Brain function will decline over time. Death commonly occurs in 5
to 7 years.

Newer drugs are being studied to treat this condition.

## Possible Complications

Complications of PSP include:

    * Blood clot in veins (deep vein thrombosis) due to limited movement
    * Injury from falling
    * Lack of control over vision
    * Loss of brain functions over time
    * Pneumonia due toÂ trouble swallowing
    * Poor nutrition (malnutrition)
    * Side effects from medicines 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you often fall, and if you have a stiff neck/body, and
vision problems.

Also, call if a loved one has been diagnosed with PSP and the condition has
declined so much that you can no longer care for the person at home.

## Alternative Names

Dementia - nuchal dystonia; Richardson-Steele-Olszewski syndrome; Palsy -
progressive supranuclear

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Ling H. Clinical approach to progressive supranuclear palsy. _J Mov Disord_.
2016;9(1):3-13. PMID: 26828211 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26828211.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Progressive Supranuclear
Palsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProgressiveSupranuclearPalsy_thumb.jpg)Progressive
Supranuclear Palsy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

