

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# _Filoviridae_

Minus

Related Pages

Filoviruses belong to a virus family called  _Filoviridae_  and can cause
severe hemorrhagic fever in humans and nonhuman primates. So far, three genera
of this virus family have been identified: Cuevavirus, Marburgvirus and
Ebolavirus. Six species of Ebolavirus have been identified: Ebola virus
(species _Zaire ebolavirus_ ), Sudan virus (species _Sudan ebolavirus_ ), Tai
Forest virus (species _Ta i Forest ebolavirus_, formerly  _C ote d'Ivoire
ebolavirus_), Bundibugyo virus (species _Bundibugyo ebolavirus_ ), Reston
virus (species _Reston ebolavirus_ ), and Bombali virus (species _Bombali
ebolavirus)._ Of these, only four (Ebola, Sudan, Tai Forest, and Bundibugyo
viruses) are known to cause disease in people. Reston virus is known to cause
disease in nonhuman primates and pigs, but not in people. Bombali virus was
recently identified in bats, and it is unknown at this time if it causes
disease in either animals or people.

Structurally, filovirus virions (complete viral particles) may appear in
several shapes, a biological features called pleomorphism. These shapes
include long, sometimes branched filaments, as well as shorter filaments
shaped like a "6", a "U", or a circle. Viral filaments may measure up to
14,000 nanometers in length, have a uniform diameter of 80 nanometers, and are
enveloped in a lipid (fatty) membrane. Each virion contains one molecule of
single-stranded, negative-sense RNA. New viral particles are created by
budding from the surface of their hosts' cells; however, filovirus replication
strategies are not completely understood.

##

![Colorized negative stained transmission electron micrograph depicting a
Marburg virus virion, in the filovirus family.](/vhf/virus-
families/images/filoviridae-small.jpg)

## Filovirus history

The first Filovirus was recognized in 1967 when a number of laboratory workers
in Germany and Yugoslavia, who were handling tissues from green monkeys,
developed hemorrhagic fever. A total of 31 cases and 7 deaths were associated
with these outbreaks. The virus was named after Marburg, Germany, the site of
one of the outbreaks. In addition to the 31 reported cases, an additional
primary case was retrospectively serologically diagnosed.

After this initial outbreak, the virus disappeared. It did not reemerge until
1975, when a traveler, most likely exposed in Zimbabwe, became ill in
Johannesburg, South Africa. The virus was transmitted there to his traveling
companion and a nurse. A few sporadic cases and 2 large epidemics (Democratic
Republic of Congo in 1999 and Angola in 2005) of Marburg hemorrhagic fever
(Margurg HF) have been identified since that time. For information on known
Marburg HF cases and outbreaks, please refer to the chronological list.

Ebolavirus was first identified in 1976 when two outbreaks of Ebola
hemorrhagic fever (Ebola HF) occurred in northern Zaire (now the Democratic
Republic of Congo) and southern Sudan. The outbreaks involved what eventually
proved to be two different species of Ebola virus; both were named after the
nations in which they were discovered. Both viruses showed themselves to be
highly lethal, as 90% of the Zairian cases and 50% of the Sudanese cases
resulted in death.

Since 1976, Ebolavirus have appeared sporadically in Africa, with small to
midsize outbreaks confirmed between 1976 and 1979. Large epidemics of Ebola HF
occurred in Kikwit, Democratic Republic of Congo in 1995, in Gulu, Uganda in
2000, in Bundibugyo, Uganda in 2008, and in Issiro, DRC in 2012. Smaller
outbreaks were identified in Gabon, DRC, and Uganda. For information on known
Ebola HF cases and outbreaks, please refer to the chronological list.

## Animal hosts

It appears that Filoviruses are zoonotic, that is, transmitted to humans from
ongoing life cycles in animals other than humans. Despite numerous attempts to
locate the natural reservoir or reservoirs of Ebolavirus and Marburgvirus
species, their origins were undetermined until recently when Marburgvirus and
Ebolavirus were detected in fruit bats in Africa. Marburgvirus has been
isolated in several occasions from Rousettus bats in Uganda.

## Spreading Filovirus infections

In an outbreak or isolated case among humans, just how the virus is
transmitted from the natural reservoir to a human is unknown. Once a human is
infected, however, person-to-person transmission is the means by which further
infections occur. Specifically, transmission involves close personal contact
between an infected individual or their body fluids, and another person.
During recorded outbreaks of hemorrhagic fever caused by a Filovirus
infection, persons who cared for (fed, washed, medicated) or worked very
closely with infected individuals were especially at risk of becoming infected
themselves. Nosocomial (hospital) transmission through contact with infected
body fluids - via reuse of unsterilized syringes, needles, or other medical
equipment contaminated with these fluids - has also been an important factor
in the spread of disease. When close contact between uninfected and infected
persons is minimized, the number of new Filovirus infections in humans usually
declines. Although in the laboratory the viruses display some capability of
infection through small-particle aerosols, airborne spread among humans has
not been clearly demonstrated.

During outbreaks, isolation of patients and use of protective clothing and
disinfection procedures (together called viral hemorrhagic fever isolation
precautions or barrier nursing) has been sufficient to interrupt further
transmission of Marburgvirus or Ebolavirus, and thus to control and end the
outbreak. Because there is no known effective treatment for the hemorrhagic
fevers caused by Filoviruses, transmission prevention through application of
viral hemorrhagic fever isolation precautions is currently the centerpiece of
Filovirus control.

In conjunction with the World Health Organization (WHO), CDC has developed
practical, hospital-based guidelines, titled Infection Control for Viral
Haemorrhagic Fevers in the African Health Care Setting. The manual can help
healthcare facilities recognize cases and prevent further hospital-based
disease transmission using locally available materials and few financial
resources.

Page last reviewed: September 18, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

ï»¿

home Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Virus Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Arenavirusesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Old World/New World Arenaviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bunyaviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Filoviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Flaviviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Working and Living Abroadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Healthcare Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Assessing Viral Hemorrhagic Fever Risk in a Returning Traveler 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Assessing Fever in a Returning Traveler with No Risk of Viral Hemorrhagic Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnoses for Consideration in a Returning Traveler with Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control for Viral Haemorrhagic Fevers in the African Health Care Setting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases

VHFs caused by Filoviruses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

