Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007651.htm    
                                Description: Tubal ligation reversal is surgery done to allow a woman who has had her tubes tied (tubal ligation) to become pregnant again. The fallopian tubes are reconnected in this reversal surgery. A tubal ligation    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tubal ligation reversal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007651.htm

# Tubal ligation reversal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tubal ligation reversal is surgery done to allow a woman who has had her tubes
tied (tubal ligation) to become pregnant again. The fallopian tubes are
reconnected in this reversal surgery. A tubal ligation cannot always be
reversed if there is too little tube left or if it is damaged.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Tubal ligation reversal surgery is done to allow a woman who has had her tubes
tied to become pregnant. However, the surgery is rarely done any more. This is
because the success rates with in vitro fertilization (IVF) have risen. Women
who wish to become pregnant after having tubal ligation, are most often
counselled to try IVF instead of surgical reversal.

Insurance plans often do not pay for this surgery.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery are:

    * Bleeding or infection
    * Damage to other organs (bowel or urinary systems) may need more surgery to repair
    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems or pneumonia
    * Heart problems 

Risks for tubal ligation reversal are:

    * Even when surgery reconnects the tubes, the woman may not become pregnant.
    * A 2% to 7% chance of a tubal (ectopic) pregnancy.
    * Injury to nearby organs or tissues from surgical instruments.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking, even
medicines, herbs, or supplements you bought without a prescription.

During the days before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask provider for help quitting. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery, or 8 hours before the time of your surgery.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital or clinic. 

## After the Procedure

You will probably go home the same day you have the procedure. Some women may
need to stay in the hospital overnight. You will need a ride home.

It may take a week or more to recover from this surgery. You will have some
tenderness and pain. Your provider will give you a prescription for pain
medicine or tell you which over-the-counter pain medicine you can take.

Many women will have shoulder pain for a few days. This is caused by the gas
used in the abdomen to help the surgeon see better during the procedure. You
can relieve the gas by lying down.

You may shower 48 hours after the procedure. Pat the incision dry with a
towel. DO NOT rub the incision or strain for 1 week. The stitches will
dissolve over time.

Your provider will tell you how long to avoid heavy lifting and sex after the
surgery. Return to normal activities slowly as you feel better. See the
surgeon 1 week after surgery to make sure healing is going well.

##  Outlook (Prognosis)

Most women have no problems with the surgery itself.

A range from 30% to 50% up to 70% to 80% of women may become pregnant. Whether
a woman becomes pregnant after this surgery may depend on:

    * Her age
    * The presence of scar tissue in the pelvis
    * The method used when tubal ligation was done
    * The length of the fallopian tube that is rejoined
    * The skill of the surgeon 

Most pregnancies after this procedure occur within 1 to 2 years.

## Alternative Names

Tubal re-anastomosis surgery; Tuboplasty

## References

Deffieux X, Morin Surroca M, Faivre E, Pages F, Fernandez H, Gervaise A. Tubal
anastomosis after tubal sterilization: a review. _Arch Gynecol Obstet_.
2011;283(5):1149-1158. PMID: 21331539 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21331539.

Karayalcin R, Ozcan S, Tokmak A, GÃ¼rlek B, Yenicesu O, Timur H. Pregnancy
outcome of laparoscopic tubal reanastomosis: retrospective results from a
single clinical centre. _J Int Med Res_. 2017;45(3):1245-1252.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28534697.

Monteith CW, Berger GS, Zerden ML. Pregnancy success after hysteroscopic
sterilization reversal. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2014;124(6):1183-1189. PMID:
25415170 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25415170.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tubal Ligation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TubalLigation_thumb.jpg)Tubal
Ligation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

