Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000288.htm    
                                Description: You had tubal ligation (or tying the tubes) surgery to close your fallopian tubes. These tubes connect the ovaries to the uterus. After tubal ligation a woman is sterile. In general, this means a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tubal ligation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000288.htm

# Tubal ligation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had tubal ligation (or tying the tubes) surgery to close your fallopian
tubes. These tubes connect the ovaries to the uterus. After tubal ligation a
woman is sterile. In general, this means a woman can no longer get pregnant.
However, there is still a small risk of pregnancy even after tubal ligation.
(A similar procedure that removes the entire tube has a higher success rate in
preventing pregnancy.)

Your surgeon probably made 1 or 2 small cuts in the area around your belly
button. Then your surgeon inserted a laparoscope (a narrow tube with a tiny
camera on the end) and other instruments into your pelvic area. Your tubes
were either cauterized (burned shut) or clamped off with a small clip, a ring,
or rubber bands.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have many symptoms that last 2 to 4 days. As long as they are not
severe, these symptoms are normal:

    * Shoulder pain
    * Scratchy or sore throat
    * Swollen belly (bloated) and crampy
    * Some discharge or bleeding from your vagina

You should be able to do most of your normal activities after 2 or 3 days.
But, you should avoid heavy lifting for 3 weeks.

## Self-care

Follow these self-care steps after your procedure:

    * Keep your incision areas clean, dry, and covered. Change your dressings (bandages) as your health care provider told you to.
    * DO NOT take baths, soak in a hot tub, or go swimming until your skin has healed.
    * Avoid heavy exercise for several days after the procedure. Try not to lift anything heavier than 10 pounds (about a gallon, 5 kg, jug of milk).
    * You can have sexual intercourse as soon as you feel ready. For most women, this is usually within a week.
    * You may be able to return to work within a few days.
    * You may eat your normal foods. If you feel sick to your stomach, try dry toast or crackers with tea. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Severe belly pain, or the pain you are having is getting worse and does not get better with pain medicines
    * Heavy bleeding from your vagina on the first day, or your bleeding does not lessen after the first day
    * Fever higher than 100.5Â°F (38Â°C) or chills
    * Pain, shortness of breath, feeling faint
    * Nausea or vomiting 

Also call your provider if your incisions are red or swollen, become painful,
or there is a discharge coming from them.

## Alternative Names

Sterilization surgery - female - discharge; Tubal sterilization - discharge;
Tube tying - discharge; Tying the tubes - discharge; Contraception - tubal

## References

Isley MM, Katz VL. Postpartum care and long-term health considerations. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Read More

    * Tubal ligation

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Tubal Ligation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

