Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000897.htm    
                                Description: A colonoscopy is an exam that views the inside of the colon (large intestine) and rectum, using a tool called a colonoscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colonoscopy discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000897.htm

# Colonoscopy discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A colonoscopy is an exam that views the inside of the colon (large intestine)
and rectum, using a tool called a colonoscope.

The colonoscope has a small camera attached to a flexible tube that can reach
the length of the colon.

## When you Were in the Hospital or Clinic

This is what the procedure involved:

    * You were likely given medicine into a vein (IV) to help you relax. You should not feel any pain.
    * The colonoscope was gently inserted through the anus and was carefully moved into the large intestine.
    * Air was inserted through the scope to provide a better view.
    * Tissue samples (biopsy or polyps) may have been removed using tiny tools inserted through the scope. Photos may have been taken using the camera at the end of the scope. 

## Right After the Test

You will be taken to an area to recover right after the test. You may wake up
there and not remember how you got there.

The nurse will check your blood pressure and pulse. Your IV will be removed.

Your doctor will likely come to talk to you and explain the results of the
test.

    * Ask to have this information written down, as you may not remember what you were told later on.
    * Final results for any tissue biopsies that were done may take up to 1 to 3 weeks. 

## Getting Home

Medicines you were given can change the way you think and make it harder to
remember for the rest of the day.

As a result, it is **NOT** safe for you to drive a car or find your own way
home.

You will not be allowed to leave alone. You will need a friend or family
member to take you home.

## Eating and Drinking

You will be asked to wait 30 minutes or more before drinking. Try small sips
of water first. When you can do this easily, you should begin with small
amounts of solid foods.

You may feel a little bloated from air pumped into your colon, and burp or
pass gas more often over the day.

If gas and bloating bother you, here are some things you can do:

    * Use a heating pad
    * Walk around
    * Lie on your left side 

## The Rest of the day

DO NOT plan to return to work for the rest of the day. It is not safe to drive
or handle tools or equipment.

You should also avoid making important work or legal decisions for the rest of
the day, even if you believe your thinking is clear.

Keep an eye on the site where the IV fluids and medicines were given. Watch
for any redness or swelling.

Ask your doctor which medicines or blood thinners you should start taking
again and when to take them.

If you had a polyp removed, your provider may ask you to avoid lifting and
other activities for up to 1 week.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * Black, tarry stools
    * Red blood in your stool
    * Vomiting that will not stop or vomiting blood
    * Severe pain or cramps in your belly
    * Chest pain
    * Blood in your stool for more than 2 bowel movements
    * Chills or fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * No bowel movement for more than 3 to 4 days 

## Alternative Names

Lower endoscopy

## References

Brewington JP, Pope JB. Colonoscopy. In: Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger and
Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 90.

Chu E. Neoplasms of the small and large intestine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
184.

## Review Date 7/13/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Colonoscopy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

