Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007253.htm    
                                Description: Virtual colonoscopy (VC) is an imaging or x-ray test that looks for cancer, polyps, or other disease in the large intestine (colon). The medical name of this test is CT colonography.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Virtual colonoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007253.htm

# Virtual colonoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Virtual colonoscopy (VC) is an imaging or x-ray test that looks for cancer,
polyps, or other disease in the large intestine (colon). The medical name of
this test is CT colonography.

## How the Test is Performed

VC is different from regular colonoscopy. Regular colonoscopy uses a long,
lighted tool called a colonoscope that is inserted into the rectum and large
intestine.

VC is done in the radiology department of a hospital or medical center. No
sedatives are needed and no colonoscope is used.

The exam is done as follows:

    * You lie on your left side on a narrow table that is connected to an MRI or CT machine.
    * Your knees are drawn up toward your chest.
    * A small, flexible tube is inserted into the rectum. Air is pumped through the tube to make the colon bigger and easier to see.
    * You then lie on your back.
    * The table slides into a large tunnel in the CT or MRI machine. X-rays of your colon are taken.
    * X-rays are also taken while you lie on your stomach.
    * You must stay very still during this procedure, because movement can blur the x-rays. You may be asked to hold your breath briefly while each x-ray is taken. 

A computer combines all the images to form three-dimensional pictures of the
colon. The doctor can view the images on a video monitor.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your bowels need to be completely empty and clean for the exam. A problem in
your large intestine that needs to be treated may be missed if your intestines
are not cleaned out.

Your health care provider will give you the steps for cleansing your bowel.
This is called bowel preparation. Steps may include:

    * Using enemas
    * Not eating solid foods for 1 to 3 days before the test
    * Taking laxatives 

You need to drink plenty of clear liquids for 1 to 3 days before the test.
Examples of clear liquids are:

    * Clear coffee or tea
    * Fat-free bouillon or broth
    * Gelatin
    * Sports drinks
    * Strained fruit juices
    * Water 

Keep taking your medicines unless your doctor tells you otherwise.

You will need to ask your provider if you need to stop taking iron pills or
liquids a few days before the test, unless your provider tells you it is OK to
continue. Iron can make your stool dark black. This makes it harder for the
doctor to view inside your bowel. Â

CT and MRI scanners are very sensitive to metals. Do not wear jewelry the day
of your exam. You will be asked to change out of your street clothes and wear
a hospital gown for the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-rays are painless. Pumping air into the colon may cause cramping or gas
pains.

After the exam:

    * You may feel bloated and have mild abdominal cramping and pass a lot of gas.
    * You should be able to return to your regular activities.

## Why the Test is Performed

VC may be done for the following reasons:

    * Follow-up on colon cancer or polyps
    * Abdominal pain, changes in bowel movements, or weight loss
    * Anemia due to low iron
    * Blood in the stool or black, tarry stools
    * Screen for cancer of the colon or rectum (should be done every 5 years) 

Your doctor may want to do a regular colonoscopy instead of a VC. The reason
is that VC does not allow the doctor to remove tissue samples or polyps.

Other times, a VC is done if your doctor was not able to move the flexible
tube all the way through the colon during a regular colonoscopy.

## Normal Results

Normal findings are images of a healthy intestinal tract.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal test results may mean any of the following:

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Abnormal pouches on the lining of the intestines, called diverticulosis
    * Colitis (a swollen and inflamed intestine) due to Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, infection, or lack of blood flow
    * Lower gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding
    * Polyps
    * Tumor 

Regular colonoscopy may be done (on a different day) after a VC if:

    * No cause for bleeding or other symptoms were found. VC can miss some smaller problems in the colon.
    * Problems that need a biopsy were seen on a VC. 

## Risks

Risks of VC include:

    * Exposure to radiation from the CT scan
    * Nausea, vomiting, bloating, or rectal irritation from medicines used to prepare for the test
    * Perforation of the intestine when the tube to pump air is inserted (extremely unlikely). 

## Considerations

Differences between virtual and conventional colonoscopy include:

    * VC can view the colon from many different angles. This is not as easy with regular colonoscopy.
    * VC does not require sedation. You can usually go back to your normal activities right away after the test. Regular colonoscopy uses sedation and often the loss of a work day.
    * VC using CT scanners expose you to radiation.
    * Regular colonoscopy has a small risk of bowel perforation (creating a small tear). There is almost no such risk from VC.
    * VC is often not able to detect polyps smaller than 10 mm. Regular colonoscopy can detect polyps of all sizes. 

## Alternative Names

Colonoscopy - virtual; CT colonography; Computed tomographic colonography;
Colography - virtual

## Images

    * ![CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23213t.jpg)CT scan
    * ![MRI scans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23212t.jpg)MRI scans

## References

Itzkowitz SH, Potack J. Colonic polyps and polyposis syndromes. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

Kim DH, Pickhardt PJ. Computed tomography colonography. In: Gore RM, Levine
MS, eds. _Textbook of Gastrointestinal Radiology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 53.

Lawler M, Johnston B, Van Schaeybroeck S, et al. Colorectal cancer. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
74.

Lin JS, Piper MA, Perdue LA, et al. Screening for colorectal cancer: updated
evidence report and systematic review for the US Preventive Services Task
Force. _JAMA._ 2016;315(23):2576-2594. PMID: 27305422
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27305422.

## Review Date 1/16/2020

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![Colonic
Polyps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicPolyps_thumb.jpg)Colonic Polyps
_Read more_

![Colonoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Colonoscopy_thumb.jpg)Colonoscopy
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

