Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003886.htm    
                                Description: A colonoscopy is an exam that views the inside of the colon (large intestine) and rectum, using a tool called a colonoscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colonoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003886.htm

# Colonoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A colonoscopy is an exam that views the inside of the colon (large intestine)
and rectum, using a tool called a colonoscope.

The colonoscope has a small camera attached to a flexible tube that can reach
the length of the colon.

## How the Test is Performed

Colonoscopy is done most often in a procedure room at your doctor's office. It
can also be done in the outpatient department of a hospital or medical center.

    * You will be asked to change out of your street clothes and wear a hospital gown for the procedure.
    * You will likely be given medicine into a vein (IV) to help you relax. You should not feel any pain. You may be awake during the test and may even be able to speak. You will probably not remember anything.
    * You lie on your left side with your knees drawn up toward your chest.
    * The scope is gently inserted through the anus. It is carefully moved into the beginning of the large intestine. The scope is slowly advanced as far as the lowest part of the small intestine.
    * Air is inserted through the scope to provide a better view. Suction may be used to remove fluid or stool.
    * The doctor gets a better view as the scope is moved back out. So, a more careful exam is done while the scope is being pulled back.
    * Tissue samples (biopsy) or polyps may be removed using tiny tools inserted through the scope. Photos may be taken using the camera at the end of the scope. If needed, procedures, such as laser therapy, are also done. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your bowel needs to be completely empty and clean for the exam. A problem in
your large intestine that needs to be treated may be missed if your intestines
are not cleaned out.

Your health care provider will give you the steps for cleansing your bowel.
This is called bowel preparation. Steps may include:

    * Using enemas
    * Not eating solid foods for 1 to 3 days before the test
    * Taking laxatives 

You need to drink plenty of clear liquids for 1 to 3 days before the test.
Examples of clear liquids are:

    * Clear coffee or tea
    * Fat-free bouillon or broth
    * Gelatin
    * Sports drinks without added color
    * Strained fruit juices
    * Water 

You will likely be told to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or other
blood-thinning medicines for several days before the test. Keep taking your
other medicines unless your doctor tells you otherwise.

You will need to stop taking iron pills or liquids a few days before the test,
unless your provider tells you it is OK to continue. Iron can make your stool
dark black. This makes it harder for the doctor to view inside your bowel.

## How the Test will Feel

The medicines will make you sleepy so that you may not feel any discomfort or
have any memory of the test.

You may feel pressure as the scope moves inside. You may feel brief cramping
and gas pains as air is inserted or the scope advances. Passing gas is
necessary and should be expected.

After the exam, you may have mild abdominal cramping and pass a lot of gas.
You may also feel bloated and sick to your stomach. These feelings will soon
go away.

You should be able to go home about one hour after the test. You must plan to
have someone take you home after the test, because you will be woozy and
unable to drive. The providers will not let you leave until someone arrives to
help you.

When you are home, follow instructions on recovering from the procedure. These
may include:

    * Drink plenty of liquids. Eat a healthy meal to restore your energy.
    * You should be able to return to your regular activities the next day.
    * Avoid driving, operating machinery, drinking alcohol, and making important decisions for at least 24 hours after the test. 

## Why the Test is Performed

Colonoscopy may be done for the following reasons:

    * Abdominal pain, changes in bowel movements, or weight loss
    * Abnormal changes (polyps) found on sigmoidoscopy or x-ray tests (CT scan or barium enema)
    * Anemia due to low iron (usually when no other cause has been found)
    * Blood in the stool, or black, tarry stools
    * Follow-up of a past finding, such as polyps or colon cancer
    * Inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease)
    * Screening for colorectal cancer

## Normal Results

Normal findings are healthy intestinal tissues.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal test results may mean any of the following:

    * Abnormal pouches on the lining of the intestines, called diverticulosis
    * Areas of bleeding
    * Cancer in the colon or rectum
    * Colitis (a swollen and inflamed intestine) due to Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis, infection, or lack of blood flow
    * Small growths called polyps on the lining of your colon (which can be removed through the colonoscope during the exam) 

## Risks

Risks of colonoscopy may include any of the following:

    * Heavy or ongoing bleeding from biopsy or removal of polyps
    * Hole or tear in the wall of the colon that requires surgery to repair
    * Infection needing antibiotic therapy (very rare)
    * Reaction to the medicine you are given to relax, causing breathing problems or low blood pressure 

## Alternative Names

Colon cancer - colonoscopy; Colorectal cancer - colonoscopy; Colonoscopy -
screening; Colon polyps - colonoscopy; Ulcerative colitis - colonoscopy; Crohn
disease - colonoscopy; Diverticulitis - colonoscopy; Diarrhea - colonoscopy;
Anemia - colonoscopy; Blood in stool - colonoscopy

## Images

    * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy
    * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8751t.jpg)Colonoscopy

## References

Itzkowitz SH, Potack J. Colonic polyps and polyposis syndromes. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management._ 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 126.

Lawler M, Johnson B, Van Schaeybroeck S, et al. Colorectal cancer. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
74.

Rex DK, Boland CR, Dominitz JA, et al. Colorectal cancer screening:
recommendations for physicians and patients from the U.S. Multi-Society Task
Force on Colorectal Cancer. _Am J Gastroenterol._ 2017;112(7):1016-1030. PMID:
28555630 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28555630.

Wolf AMD, Fontham ETH, Church TR, et al. Colorectal cancer screening for
average-risk adults: 2018 guideline update from the American Cancer Society.
_CA Cancer J Clin._ 2018;68(4):250-281. PMID: 29846947
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29846947.

## Review Date 1/16/2020

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![Colonic
Polyps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicPolyps_thumb.jpg)Colonic Polyps
_Read more_

![Colonoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Colonoscopy_thumb.jpg)Colonoscopy
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

