Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003885.htm    
                                Description: Sigmoidoscopy is a procedure used to see inside the sigmoid colon and rectum. The sigmoid colon is the area of the large intestine nearest to the rectum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sigmoidoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003885.htm

# Sigmoidoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sigmoidoscopy is a procedure used to see inside the sigmoid colon and rectum.
The sigmoid colon is the area of the large intestine nearest to the rectum.

## How the Test is Performed

During the test:

    * You lie on your left side with your knees drawn up to your chest.
    * The doctor gently places a gloved and lubricated finger into your rectum to check for blockage and gently enlarge (dilate) the anus. This is called a digital rectal exam.
    * Next, the sigmoidoscope is placed through the anus. The scope is a flexible tube with a camera at its end. The scope is gently moved into your colon. Air is inserted into the colon to enlarge the area and help the doctor view the area better. The air may cause the urge to have a bowel movement or pass gas. Suction may be used to remove fluid or stool.
    * Often, the images are seen in high definition on a video monitor.
    * The doctor may take tissue samples with a tiny biopsy tool or a thin metal snare inserted through the scope. Heat (electrocautery) may be used to remove polyps. Photos of the inside of your colon may be taken. 

Sigmoidoscopy using a rigid scope may be done to treat problems of the anus or
rectum.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will tell you how to prepare for the exam. You will
use an enema to empty your bowels. This is usually done 1 hour before the
sigmoidoscopy. Often, a second enema may be recommended. Or, your provider may
recommend a liquid laxative the night before.

On the morning of the procedure, you may be asked to fast with the exception
of certain medicines. Be sure to discuss this with your provider well in
advance. Sometimes, you are asked to follow a clear liquid diet the day
before, and sometimes a regular diet is allowed. Again, discuss this with your
provider well in advance of your test date.

## How the Test will Feel

During the exam you may feel:

    * Pressure during the digital rectal exam or when the scope is placed in your rectum.
    * The need to have a bowel movement.
    * Some bloating or cramping caused by the air or by stretching of the bowel by the sigmoidoscope. 

After the test, your body will pass the air that was put into your colon.

Children may be given medicine to make them sleep lightly (sedated) for this
procedure.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may recommend this test to look for the cause of:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Diarrhea, constipation, or other changes in bowel habits
    * Blood, mucus, or pus in the stool
    * Weight loss that can't be explained

This test can also be used to:

    * Confirm findings of another test or x-rays
    * Screen for colorectal cancer or polyps
    * Take a biopsy of a growth

## Normal Results

A normal test result will show no problems with the color, texture, and size
of the lining of the sigmoid colon, rectal mucosa, rectum, and anus.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results can indicate:

    * Anal fissures (small split or tear in the thin, moist tissue lining the anus)
    * Anorectal abscess (collection of pus in the area of the anus and rectum)
    * Blockage of the large intestine (Hirschsprung disease)
    * Cancer
    * Colorectal polyps
    * Diverticulosis (abnormal pouches on the lining of the intestines)
    * Hemorrhoids
    * Inflammatory bowel disease
    * Inflammation or infection (proctitis and colitis) 

## Risks

There is a slight risk of bowel perforation (tearing a hole) and bleeding at
the biopsy sites. The overall risk is very small.

## Alternative Names

Flexible sigmoidoscopy; Sigmoidoscopy - flexible; Proctoscopy;
Proctosigmoidoscopy; Rigid sigmoidoscopy; Colon cancer sigmoidoscopy;
Colorectal sigmoidoscopy; Rectal sigmoidoscopy; Gastrointestinal bleeding -
sigmoidoscopy; Rectal bleeding - sigmoidoscopy; Melena - sigmoidoscopy; Blood
in stool - sigmoidoscopy; Polyps - sigmoidoscopy

## Images

    * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy
    * ![Sigmoid colon cancer - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1198t.jpg)Sigmoid colon cancer - x-ray
    * ![Rectal biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9545t.jpg)Rectal biopsy

## References

Pasricha PJ. Gastrointestinal endoscopy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 125.

Rex DK, Boland CR, Dominitz JA, et al. Colorectal cancer screening:
recommendations for physicians and patients from the U.S. Multi-Society Task
Force on Colorectal Cancer. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2017;112(7):1016-1030. PMID:
28555630 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28555630.

Vargo JJ. Preparation for and complications of GI endoscopy. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 41.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Internal
review and update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Colonoscopy_thumb.jpg)Colonoscopy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

