Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000167.htm    
                                Description: Hypovolemic shock is an emergency condition in which severe blood or fluid loss makes the heart unable to pump enough blood to the body. This type of shock can cause many organs to stop working.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypovolemic shock

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000167.htm

# Hypovolemic shock

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypovolemic shock is an emergency condition in which severe blood or fluid
loss makes the heart unable to pump enough blood to the body. This type of
shock can cause many organs to stop working.

## Causes

Losing about one fifth or more of the normal amount of blood in your body
causes hypovolemic shock.

Blood loss can be due to:

    * Bleeding from cuts 
    * Bleeding from other injuries 
    * Internal bleeding, such as in the gastrointestinal tract 

The amount of circulating blood in your bodyÂ also may drop when you lose too
much body fluid from other causes. This can be due to:

    * Burns 
    * Diarrhea 
    * Excessive perspiration 
    * Vomiting 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Anxiety or agitation
    * Cool, clammy skin
    * Confusion
    * Decreased or no urine output
    * General weakness
    * Pale skin color (pallor)
    * Rapid breathing
    * Sweating, moist skin
    * Unconsciousness

The greater and more rapid the blood loss, the more severe the symptoms of
shock.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam will show signs of shock, including:

    * Low blood pressure
    * Low body temperature
    * Rapid pulse, often weak and thready 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood chemistry, including kidney function tests and those tests looking for evidence of heart muscle damage
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan, ultrasound, or x-ray of suspected areas
    * Echocardiogram: sound wave test of heart structure and function
    * Endoscopy: tube placed in the mouth to the stomach (upper endoscopy) or colonoscopy (tube placed through the anus to the large bowel)
    * Right heart (Swan-Ganz) catheterization
    * Urinary catheterization (tube placed into the bladder to measure urine output) 

In some cases, other tests may be done as well.

## Treatment

Get medical help right away. In the meantime, follow these steps:

    * Keep the person comfortable and warm (to avoid hypothermia).
    * Have the person lie flat with the feet lifted about 12 inches (30 centimeters) to increase circulation. However, if the person has a head, neck, back, or leg injury, do not change the person's position unlessÂ theyÂ are in immediate danger.
    * Do not give fluids by mouth.
    * If person is having an allergic reaction, treat the allergic reaction, if you know how.
    * If the person must be carried, try to keepÂ themÂ flat, with the head down and feet lifted. Stabilize the head and neck before moving a person with a suspected spinal injury. 

The goal of hospital treatment is to replace blood and fluids. An intravenous
(IV) line will be put into the person's arm to allow blood or blood products
to be given.

Medicines such as dopamine, dobutamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine may be
needed to increase blood pressure and the amount of blood pumped out of the
heart (cardiac output).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms and outcomes can vary, depending on:

    * Amount of blood/fluid volume lost 
    * Rate of blood/fluid loss 
    * Illness or injury causing the loss 
    * Underlying chronic medical conditions, such as diabetes and heart, lung, and kidney disease 

In general, people with milder degrees of shock tend to do better than those
with more severe shock. Severe hypovolemic shock may lead to death, even with
immediate medical attention. Older adults are more likely to have poor
outcomes from shock.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Kidney damage
    * Brain damage
    * Gangrene of arms or legs, sometimes leading to amputation
    * Heart attack
    * Other organ damage
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Hypovolemic shock is a medical emergency. Call the local emergency number
(such as 911) or take the person to the emergency room.

## Prevention

Preventing shock is easier than trying to treat it once it happens. Quickly
treating the cause will reduce the risk of developing severe shock. Early
first aid can help control shock.

## Alternative Names

Shock - hypovolemic

## References

den Uil CA, Klijn E, Lagrand WK, et al. The microcirculation in health and
critical disease. _Prog Cardiovasc Dis_. 2008;51(2):161-170. PMID: 18774014
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18774014.

Groeneveld ABJ. Hypovolemic shock. In: Parrillo JE, Dellinger RP, eds.
_Critical Care Medicine: Principles of Diagnosis and Management in the Adult_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 26.

Puskarich MA, Jones AE. Shock. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.

Rivers E. Approach to the patient with shock. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 106.

Tarrant AM, Ryan MF, Hamilton PA, Bejaminov O. A pictorial review of
hypovolaemic shock in adults. _Br J Radiol_. 2008;81(963):252-257. PMID:
18180262 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18180262.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Shock](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Shock_thumb.jpg)Shock _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

