Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000185.htm    
                                Description: Cardiogenic shock takes place when the heart has been damaged so much that it is unable to supply enough blood to the organs of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiogenic shock

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000185.htm

# Cardiogenic shock

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiogenic shock takes place when the heart has been damaged so much that it
is unable to supply enough blood to the organs of the body.

## Causes

The most common causes are serious heart conditions. Many of these occur
during or after a heart attack (myocardial infarction). These complications
include:

    * A large section of heart muscle that no longer moves well or does not move at all
    * Breaking open (rupture) of the heart muscle due to damage from the heart attack
    * Dangerous heart rhythms, such as ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, or supraventricular tachycardia
    * Pressure on the heart due to a buildup of fluid around it (pericardial tamponade)
    * Tear or rupture of the muscles or tendons that support the heart valves, especially the mitral valve
    * Tear or rupture of the wall (septum) between the left and right ventricles (lower heart chambers)
    * Very slow heart rhythm (bradycardia) or problem with the electrical system of the heart (heart block) 
![Heart - section through the
middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1056.jpg)

Cardiogenic shock occurs when the heart is unable to pump as much blood as the
body needs. It can happen even if there hasn't been a heart attack if 1 of
these problems occurs and your heart function drops suddenly.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Chest pain or pressure
    * Coma
    * Decreased urination
    * Fast breathing
    * Fast pulse
    * Heavy sweating, moist skin 
    * Lightheadedness
    * Loss of alertness and ability to concentrate
    * Restlessness, agitation, confusion
    * Shortness of breath
    * Skin that feels cool to the touch
    * Pale skin color or blotchy skin
    * Weak (thready) pulse

## Exams and Tests

An exam will show:

    * Low blood pressure (most often less than 90 systolic)
    * Blood pressure that drops more than 10 points when you stand up after lying down (orthostatic hypotension)
    * Weak (thready) pulse
    * Cold and clammy skin

To diagnose cardiogenic shock, a catheter (tube) may be placed in the lung
artery (right heart catheterization). Tests may show that blood is backing up
into the lungs and the heart is not pumping well.

Tests include:

    * Cardiac catheterization
    * Chest x-ray
    * Coronary angiography
    * Echocardiogram
    * Electrocardiogram
    * Nuclear scan of the heart 

Other studies may be done to find out why the heart is not working properly.

Lab tests include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Blood chemistry (chem-7, chem-20, electrolytes)
    * Cardiac enzymes (troponin, CKMB)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) 

## Treatment

Cardiogenic shock is a medical emergency. You will need to stay in the
hospital, most often in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The goal of treatment
is to find and treat the cause of shock to save your life.

You may need medicines to increase blood pressure and improve heart function,
including:

    * Dobutamine
    * Dopamine
    * Epinephrine
    * Levosimendan
    * Milrinone
    * Norepinephrine
    * Vasopressin

These medicines may help in the short-term. They are not often used for a long
time.

When a heart rhythm disturbance (dysrhythmia) is serious, urgent treatment may
be needed to restore a normal heart rhythm. This may include:

    * Electrical "shock" therapy (defibrillation or cardioversion)
    * Implanting a temporary pacemaker
    * Medicines given through a vein (IV) 

You may also receive:

    * Pain medicine
    * Oxygen
    * Fluids, blood, and blood products through a vein (IV) 

Other treatments for shock may include:

    * Cardiac catheterization with coronary angioplasty and stenting
    * Heart monitoring to guide treatment
    * Heart surgery (coronary artery bypass surgery, heart valve replacement, left ventricular assist device)
    * Intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation (IABP) to help the heart work better
    * Pacemaker
    * Ventricular assist device or other mechanical support 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In the past, the death rate from cardiogenic shock ranged from 80% to 90%. In
more recent studies, this rate has decreased to 50% to 75%.

When cardiogenic shock is not treated, the outlook is very poor.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Brain damage
    * Kidney damage
    * Liver damage

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms of cardiogenic shock. Cardiogenic shock is a medical
emergency.

## Prevention

You may reduce the risk of developing cardiogenic shock by:

    * Quickly treating its cause (such as heart attack or heart valve problem)
    * Preventing and treating the risk factors for heart disease, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and triglycerides, or tobacco use

## Alternative Names

Shock - cardiogenic

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle

## References

Felker GM, Teerlink JR. Diagnosis and management of acute heart failure. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 24.

Hollenberg SM. Cardiogenic shock. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 107.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![Shock](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Shock_thumb.jpg)Shock _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

