Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000039.htm    
                                Description: Shock is a life-threatening condition that occurs when the body is not getting enough blood flow. Lack of blood flow means the cells and organs do not get enough oxygen and nutrients to function properly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shock

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000039.htm

# Shock

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shock is a life-threatening condition that occurs when the body is not getting
enough blood flow. Lack of blood flow means the cells and organs do not get
enough oxygen and nutrients to function properly. Many organs can be damaged
as a result. Shock requires immediate treatment and can get worse very
rapidly. As many 1 in 5 people who suffer shock will die from it.

## Considerations

The main types of shock include:

    * Cardiogenic shock (due to heart problems)
    * Hypovolemic shock (caused by too little blood volume)
    * Anaphylactic shock (caused by allergic reaction)
    * Septic shock (due to infections)
    * Neurogenic shock (caused by damage to the nervous system) 

## Causes

Shock can be caused by any condition that reduces blood flow, including:

    * Heart problems (such as heart attack or heart failure)
    * Low blood volume (as with heavy bleeding or dehydration)
    * Changes in blood vessels (as with infection or severe allergic reactions)
    * Certain medicines that significantly reduce heart function or blood pressure 

Shock is often associated with heavy external or internal bleeding from a
serious injury. Spinal injuries can also cause shock.

Toxic shock syndrome is an example of a type of shock from an infection.

## Symptoms

A person in shock has extremely low blood pressure. Depending on the specific
cause and type of shock, symptoms will include one or more of the following:

    * Anxiety or agitation/restlessness
    * Bluish lips and fingernails
    * Chest pain
    * Confusion
    * Dizziness, lightheadedness, or faintness
    * Pale, cool, clammy skin
    * Low or no urine output
    * Profuse sweating, moist skin
    * Rapid but weak pulse
    * Shallow breathing
    * Unconsciousness

## First Aid

Take the following steps if you think a person is in shock:

    * Call 911 for immediate medical help.
    * Check the person's airway, breathing, and circulation. If necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.
    * Even if the person is able to breathe on their own, continue to check rate of breathing at least every 5 minutes until help arrives.
    * If the person is conscious and DOES NOT have an injury to the head, leg, neck, or spine, place the person in the shock position. Lay the person on the back and elevate the legs about 12 inches (30 centimeters). DO NOT elevate the head. If raising the legs will cause pain or potential harm, leave the person lying flat.
    * Give appropriate first aid for any wounds, injuries, or illnesses.
    * Keep the person warm and comfortable. Loosen tight clothing.

IF THE PERSON VOMITS OR DROOLS

    * Turn the head to one side to prevent choking. Do this as long as you do not suspect an injury to the spine.
    * If a spinal injury is suspected, "log roll" the person instead. To do this, keep the person's head, neck, and back in line, and roll the body and head as a unit.

## DO NOT

In case of shock:

    * DO NOT give the person anything by mouth, including anything to eat or drink.
    * DO NOT move the person with a known or suspected spinal injury.
    * DO NOT wait for milder shock symptoms to worsen before calling for emergency medical help.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 any time a person has symptoms of shock. Stay with the person and
follow the first aid steps until medical help arrives.

## Prevention

Learn ways to prevent heart disease, falls, injuries, dehydration, and other
causes of shock. If you have a known allergy (for example, to insect bites or
stings), carry an epinephrine pen. Your health care provider will teach you
how and when to use it.

## Images

    * ![Shock](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17231t.jpg)Shock

## References

Puskarich MA, Jones AE. Shock. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.

Rivers EP. Approach to the patient with shock. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 106.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Shock](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Shock_thumb.jpg)Shock _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

