Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000438.htm    
                                Description: The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that attach to the bones of the shoulder joint, allowing the shoulder to move and keeping it stable.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rotator cuff problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000438.htm

# Rotator cuff problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that attach to the bones of
the shoulder joint, allowing the shoulder to move and keeping it stable.

    * Rotator cuff tendinitis refers to irritation of these tendons and inflammation of the bursa (a normally smooth layer) lining these tendons.
    * A rotator cuff tear occurs when one of the tendons is torn from the bone from overuse or injury. 
![Normal rotator cuff](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/21755.jpg)

## Causes

The shoulder joint is a ball and socket type joint. The top part of the arm
bone (humerus) forms a joint with the shoulder blade (scapula). The rotator
cuff holds the head of the humerus into the scapula. It also controls movement
of the shoulder joint.

![Shoulder joint
inflammation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8811.jpg)

TENDINITIS

The tendons of the rotator cuff pass underneath a bony area on their way to
attaching the top part of the arm bone. When these tendons become inflamed,
they can become more inflamed over this area during shoulder movements.
Sometimes, a bone spur narrows the space even more.

Rotator cuff tendinitis is also called impingement syndrome. Causes of this
condition include:

    * Keeping the arm in the same position for long periods, such as doing computer work or hairstyling
    * Sleeping on the same arm each night
    * Playing sports requiring the arm to be moved overhead repeatedly such as in tennis, baseball (particularly pitching), swimming, and lifting weights overhead
    * Working with the arm overhead for many hours or days, such as in painting and carpentry
    * Poor posture over many years
    * Aging
    * Rotator cuff tears 

TEARS

Rotator cuff tears may occur in two ways:

    * A sudden acute tear may happen when you fall on your arm while it is stretched out. Or, it can occur after a sudden, jerking motion when you try to lift something heavy.
    * A chronic tear of the rotator cuff tendon occurs slowly over time. It is more likely when you have chronic tendinitis or impingement syndrome. At some point, the tendon wears down and tears. 

There are two types of rotator cuff tears:

    * A partial tear occurs when a tear does not completely sever the attachments to the bone.
    * A complete, full thickness tear means that the tear goes all the way through the tendon. It may be as small as a pinpoint, or the tear may involve the entire tendon. With complete tears, the tendon has come off (detached) from where it was attached to the bone. This kind of tear does not heal on its own. 

## Symptoms

TENDINITIS

Early on, pain is mild and occurs with overhead activities and lifting your
arm to the side. Activities include brushing your hair, reaching for objects
on shelves, or playing an overhead sport.

Pain is more likely in the front of the shoulder and may travel to the side of
the arm. The pain always stops before the elbow. If the pain goes down the arm
to the elbow and hand, this may indicate a pinched nerve in the neck.

There may also be pain when you lower the shoulder from a raised position.

![Inflamed shoulder
tendons](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9855.jpg)

Over time, there may be pain at rest or at night, such as when lying on the
affected shoulder. You may have weakness and loss of motion when raising the
arm above your head. Your shoulder can feel stiff with lifting or movement. It
may become more difficult to place the arm behind your back.

ROTATOR CUFF TEARS

The pain with a sudden tear after a fall or injury is usually intense. Right
after the injury, you will likely have weakness of the shoulder and arm. It
may be hard to move your shoulder or raise your arm above the shoulder. You
may also feel snapping when trying to move the arm.

With a chronic tear, you often do not notice when it began. This is because
symptoms of pain, weakness, and stiffness or loss of motion worsen slowly over
time.

![Torn rotator cuff](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/21757.jpg)

Rotator cuff tendon tears often cause pain at night. The pain may even wake
you. During the day, the pain is more tolerable, and usually only hurts with
certain movements, such as overhead or reaching toward the back.

Over time, the symptoms become much worse, and are not relieved by medicines,
rest, or exercise.

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination may reveal tenderness over the shoulder. Pain may occur
when the shoulder is raised overhead. There is often weakness of the shoulder
when it is placed in certain positions.

X-rays of the shoulder may show a bone spur or change in the position of the
shoulder. It can also rule out other causes of shoulder pain, such as
arthritis.

YourÂ health care providerÂ may order other tests:

    * An ultrasound test uses sound waves to create an image of the shoulder joint. It can show a tear in the rotator cuff.
    * MRI of the shoulder may show swelling or a tear in the rotator cuff. 
    * With a joint x-ray (arthrogram), theÂ provider injects contrast material (dye) into the shoulder joint. Then an x-ray, CT scan, or MRI scan is used to take a picture of it. Contrast is usually used when yourÂ provider suspects a small rotator cuff tear.

## Treatment

Follow your provider's instructions on how to take care of your rotator cuff
problem at home. Doing so can help relieve your symptoms so that you can
return to sports or other activities.

TENDINITIS

YourÂ provider will likely advise you to rest your shoulder and avoid
activities that cause pain. Other measures include:

    * Ice packs applied 20 minutes at a time, 3 to 4 times a day to the shoulder (protect the skin by wrapping the ice pack in a clean towel before applying)
    * Taking medicines, such as ibuprofen and naproxen, to help reduce swelling and pain
    * Avoiding or reducing activities that cause or worsen your symptoms
    * Physical therapy to stretch and strengthen the shoulder muscles
    * Medicine (corticosteroid) injected into the shoulder to reduce pain and swelling
    * Surgery (arthroscopy) to remove inflamed tissue and part of the bone over the rotator cuff to relieve pressure on the tendons

TEARS

Rest and physical therapy may help with a partial tear if you do not normally
place a lot of demand on your shoulder.

Surgery to repair the tendon may be needed if the rotator cuff has a complete
tear. Surgery may also be needed if the symptoms do not get better with other
treatment. Most of the time, arthroscopic surgery can be used. Large tears may
need open surgery (surgery with a larger incision) to repair the torn tendon.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With rotator cuff tendinitis, rest, exercise and other self-care measures
often improve or even relieve symptoms. This may take weeks or months. Some
people may need to change or reduce the amount of time they play certain
sports to remain pain-free.

With rotator cuff tears, treatment often relieves symptoms. But outcome
depends on the size of the tear and how long the tear has been present, the
person's age, and how active the person was before the injury.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider ifÂ you have ongoingÂ shoulder
pain. Also call if symptoms do not improve with treatment.

## Prevention

Avoid repetitive overhead movements. Exercises to strengthen shoulder and arm
muscles can also help prevent rotator cuff problems.Â Practice good posture to
keep your rotator cuff tendons and muscles in their right positions.

## Alternative Names

Swimmer's shoulder; Pitcher's shoulder; Shoulder impingement syndrome; Tennis
shoulder; Tendinitis - rotator cuff; Rotator cuff tendinitis; Shoulder overuse
syndrome

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

## Images

    * ![Normal rotator cuff](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21755t.jpg)Normal rotator cuff anatomy
    * ![Shoulder joint inflammation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8811t.jpg)Shoulder joint inflammation
    * ![Inflamed shoulder tendons](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9855t.jpg)Inflamed shoulder tendons
    * ![Torn rotator cuff](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21757t.jpg)Torn rotator cuff

## References

Hsu JE, Gee AO, Lippitt SB, Matsen FA. The rotator cuff. In: Rockwood CA,
Matsen FA, Wirth MA, Lippitt SB, Fehringer EV, Sperling JW, eds. _Rockwood and
Matsen's The Shoulder_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Mosich GM, Yamaguchi KT, Petrigliano FA. Rotator cuff and impingement lesions.
In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 47.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rotator Cuff
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RotatorCuffInjuries_thumb.jpg)Rotator
Cuff Injuries _Read more_

![Sports
injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SportsInjuries_thumb.jpg)Sports
Injuries _Read more_

![Tendinitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tendinitis_thumb.jpg)Tendinitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

