Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000357.htm    
                                Description: The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that form a cuff over the shoulder joint. These muscles and tendons hold the arm in its joint and help the shoulder joint to move. The tendons can be    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rotator cuff exercises

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000357.htm

# Rotator cuff exercises

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that form a cuff over the
shoulder joint. These muscles and tendons hold the arm in its joint and help
the shoulder joint to move. The tendons can be torn from overuse, injury, or
wearing away over time.

Exercises can help strengthen the rotator cuff muscles and tendons to relieve
your symptoms.

## Your Shoulder Joint

The tendons of the rotator cuff pass underneath a bony area on their way to
attaching to the top of the arm bone. These tendons join together to form a
cuff that surrounds the shoulder joint. This helps keep the joint stable and
allows the arm bone to move on the shoulder bone.

Injury to these tendons may result in:

    * Rotator cuff tendinitis, which is irritation and swelling of these tendons
    * A rotator cuff tear, which occurs when one of the tendons is torn due to overuse or injury 

These injuries often lead to pain, weakness, and stiffness when you use your
shoulder. A key part in your recovery is doing exercises to make the muscles
and tendons in your joint stronger and more flexible.

Your doctor may refer you to a physical therapist to treat your rotator cuff.
A physical therapist is trained to help improve your ability to do the
activities you want.

## Evaluating Your Shoulder

Before treating you, a doctor or therapist will evaluate your body mechanics.
The therapist may:

    * Watch how your shoulder moves as you perform activities, including your shoulder joint and your shoulder blade
    * Observe your spine and posture as you stand or sit
    * Check the range of motion of your shoulder joint and spine
    * Test different muscles for weakness or stiffness
    * Check to see which movements seem to cause or worsen your pain 

After testing and examining you, your doctor or physical therapist will know
which muscles are weak or too tight. You will then start a program to stretch
your muscles and make them stronger.

## Exercises for Your Shoulder

The goal is for you to function as well as possible with little or no pain. To
do this, your physical therapist will:

    * Help you strengthen and stretch the muscles around your shoulder
    * Teach you proper ways to move your shoulder, for everyday tasks or sports activities
    * Teach you correct shoulder posture 

Before doing exercises at home, ask your doctor or physical therapist to make
sure you are doing them properly. If you have pain during or after an
exercise, you may need to change the way you are doing the exercise.

Most exercises for your shoulder either stretch or strengthen the muscles and
tendons of your shoulder joint.

Exercises to stretch your shoulder include:

    * Stretching the back of your shoulder (posterior stretching)
    * Hand up your back stretch (anterior shoulder stretch)
    * Anterior shoulder stretch - towel
    * Pendulum exercise
    * Wall stretches

Exercises to strengthen your shoulder:

    * Internal rotation exercise - with band
    * External rotation exercise - with band
    * Isometric shoulder exercises
    * Wall push-ups
    * Shoulder blade (scapular) retraction - no tubing
    * Shoulder blade (scapular) retraction - tubing
    * Arm reach

## Alternative Names

Shoulder exercises

## Images

    * ![Anterior shoulder stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23361t.jpg)Anterior shoulder stretch
    * ![Arm reach](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23362t.jpg)Arm reach
    * ![External rotation with band](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23363t.jpg)External rotation with band
    * ![Internal rotation with band](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23364t.jpg)Internal rotation with band
    * ![Isometric](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23365t.jpg)Isometric
    * ![Pendulum exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23366t.jpg)Pendulum exercise
    * ![Shoulder blade retraction with tubing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23367t.jpg)Shoulder blade retraction with tubing
    * ![Shoulder blade retraction](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23372t.jpg)Shoulder blade retraction
    * ![Stretching back of your shoulder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23368t.jpg)Stretching back of your shoulder
    * ![Up the back stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23369t.jpg)Up the back stretch
    * ![Wall push-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23370t.jpg)Wall push-up
    * ![Wall stretch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23371t.jpg)Wall stretch

## References

Finnoff JT. Upper limb pain and dysfunction. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 35.

Rudolph GH, Moen T, Garofalo R, Krishnan SG. Rotator cuff and impingement
lesions. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 52.

Whittle S, Buchbinder R. In the clinic. Rotator cuff disease. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;162(1):ITC1-ITC15. PMID: 25560729
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25560729.

## Read More

    * Frozen shoulder
    * Rotator cuff problems
    * Rotator cuff repair 
    * Shoulder arthroscopy
    * Shoulder CT scan
    * Shoulder MRI scan
    * Shoulder pain

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Rotator Cuff Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

