Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007206.htm    
                                Description: Shoulder arthroscopy is surgery that uses a tiny camera called an arthroscope to examine or repair the tissues inside or around your shoulder joint. The arthroscope is inserted through a small cut (incision)    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder arthroscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007206.htm

# Shoulder arthroscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shoulder arthroscopy is surgery that uses a tiny camera called an arthroscope
to examine or repair the tissues inside or around your shoulder joint. The
arthroscope is inserted through a small cut (incision) in your skin.

## Description

The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and their tendons that form a cuff over
the shoulder joint. These muscles and tendons hold the arm in the shoulder
joint. This also helps the shoulder move in different directions. The tendons
in the rotator cuff can tear when they are overused or injured.

You will likely receive general anesthesia for this surgery. This means you
will be asleep and unable to feel pain. Or, you may have regional anesthesia.
Your arm and shoulder area will be numbed, as a result you do not feel any
pain. If you receive regional anesthesia, you will also be given medicine to
make you very sleepy during the operation.

During the procedure, the surgeon:

    * Inserts the arthroscope into your shoulder through a small incision. The scope is connected to a video monitor in the operating room.
    * Inspects all the tissues of your shoulder joint and the area above the joint. These tissues include the cartilage, bones, tendons, and ligaments.
    * Repairs any damaged tissues. To do this, your surgeon makes 1 to 3 more small incisions and inserts other instruments through them. A tear in a muscle, tendon, or cartilage is fixed. Any damaged tissue is removed. 

Your surgeon may do one or more of these procedures during your operation.

Rotator cuff repair:

    * The edges of the tendon are brought together. The tendon is attached to the bone with sutures.
    * Small rivets (called suture anchors) are often used to help attach the tendon to the bone.
    * The anchors can be made of metal or plastic. They do not need to be removed after surgery. 

Surgery for impingement syndrome:

    * Damaged or inflamed tissue is cleaned out in the area above the shoulder joint.
    * A ligament called the coracoacromial ligament may be cut.
    * The underside of a bone called the acromion may be shaved. A bony growth (spur) on the underside of the acromion often causes impingement syndrome. The spur can cause inflammation and pain in your shoulder. 

Surgery for shoulder instability:

    * If you have a torn labrum, the surgeon will repair it. The labrum is the cartilage that lines the rim of the shoulder joint.Â 
    * Ligaments that attach to this area will also be repaired.
    * The Bankart lesion is a tear on the labrum in the lower part of the shoulder joint.
    * A SLAP lesion involves the labrum and the ligament on the top part of the shoulder joint. 

At the end of the surgery, the incisions will be closed with stitches and
covered with a dressing (bandage). Most surgeons take pictures from the video
monitor during the procedure to show you what they found and the repairs that
were made.

Your surgeon may need to do open surgery if there is a lot of damage. Open
surgery means you will have a large incision so that the surgeon can get
directly to your bones and tissues.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Arthroscopy may be recommended for these shoulder problems:

    * A torn or damaged cartilage ring (labrum) or ligaments
    * Shoulder instability, in which the shoulder joint is loose and slides around too much or becomes dislocated (slips out of the ball and socket joint)
    * A torn or damaged biceps tendon
    * A torn rotator cuff
    * A bone spur or inflammation around the rotator cuff
    * Inflammation or damaged lining of the joint, often caused by an illness, such as rheumatoid arthritis
    * Arthritis of the end of the clavicle (collarbone)
    * Loose tissue that needs to be removed
    * Shoulder impingement syndrome, to make more room for the shoulder to move aroundÂ 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks of shoulder arthroscopy are:

    * Shoulder stiffness
    * Failure of the surgery to relieve symptoms
    * The repair fails to heal
    * Weakness of the shoulder
    * Blood vessel or nerve injury
    * Damage to the cartilage of shoulder (chondrolysis) 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking. This includes
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and other medicines.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon may ask you to see your doctor who treats you for these conditions.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow wound and bone healing.
    * Tell your doctor about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. 

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take any drugs you're asked to take with a small sip of water.
    * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time. 

## After the Procedure

Follow any discharge and self-care instructions you are given.

Recovery can take 1 to 6 months. You will probably have to wear a sling for
the first week. If you had a lot of repair done, you may have to wear the
sling longer.

You may take medicine to control your pain.

When you can return to work or play sports will depend on what your surgery
involved. It can range from 1 week to several months.

Physical therapy may help you regain motion and strength in your shoulder. The
length of therapy will depend on what was done during your surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Arthroscopy often results in less pain and stiffness, fewer complications, a
shorter (if any) hospital stay, and faster recovery than open surgery.

If you had a repair, your body needs time to heal, even after arthroscopic
surgery, just as you would need time to recover from open surgery. Because of
this, your recovery time may still be long.

Surgery to fix a cartilage tear is usually done to make the shoulder more
stable. Many people recover fully, and their shoulder stays stable. But some
people may still have shoulder instability after arthroscopic repair.

Using arthroscopy for rotator cuff repairs or tendinitis usually relieves the
pain, but you may not regain all of your strength.

## Alternative Names

SLAP repair; SLAP lesion; Acromioplasty; Bankart repair; Bankart lesion;
Shoulder repair; Shoulder surgery; Rotator cuff repair

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

## Images

    * ![Shoulder arthroscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21743t.jpg)Shoulder arthroscopy

## References

DeBerardino TM, Scordino LW. Shoulder arthroscopy. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee, Drez, & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 39.

Phillips BB. Arthroscopy of the upper extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

## Review Date 5/27/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rotator Cuff
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RotatorCuffInjuries_thumb.jpg)Rotator
Cuff Injuries _Read more_

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Shoulder
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

