Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007387.htm    
                                Description: Shoulder replacement is surgery to replace the bones of the shoulder joint with artificial joint parts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007387.htm

# Shoulder replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shoulder replacement is surgery to replace the bones of the shoulder joint
with artificial joint parts.

## Description

You will receive anesthesia before this surgery. Two types of anesthesia can
be used:

    * General anesthesia, which means you will be unconscious and unable to feel pain.
    * Regional anesthesia to numb your arm and shoulder area so that you do not feel any pain in this area. If you receive only regional anesthesia, you will also be given medicine to help you relax during the operation. 

The shoulder is a ball and socket joint. The round end of the arm bone fits
into the opening at the end of the shoulder blade, called the socket. This
type of joint allows you to move your arm in most directions.

For total shoulder replacement, the round end of your arm bone will be
replaced with an artificial stem that has a rounded metal head (ball). The
socket part (glenoid) of your shoulder blade will be replaced with a smooth
plastic lining (socket) that will be held in place with special cement. If
only 1 of these 2 bones needs to be replaced, the surgery is called a partial
shoulder replacement, or a hemiarthroplasty.

Another type of procedure is called reverse total shoulder replacement. In
this surgery, the positions of the metal ball and socket are switched. The
metal ball is attached to the shoulder blade. The socket is attached to the
arm bone. This surgery can be done when the rotator cuff tendons are severely
damaged or there are fractures of the shoulder.

For shoulder joint replacement, your surgeon will make an incision (cut) over
your shoulder joint to open up the area. Then your surgeon will:

    * Remove the head (top) of your upper arm bone (humerus)
    * Cement the new metal head and stem into place
    * Smooth the surface of the old socket and cement the new one in place
    * Close your incision with staples or sutures
    * Place a dressing (bandage) over your wound 

Your surgeon may place a tube in this area to drain fluid that may build up in
the joint. The drain will be removed when you no longer need it.

This surgery normally takes 1 to 3 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Shoulder replacement surgery is often done when you have severe pain in the
shoulder area, which limits your ability to move your arm. Causes of shoulder
pain include:

    * Osteoarthritis
    * Poor result from a previous shoulder surgery
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Badly broken bone in the arm near the shoulder
    * Badly damaged or torn tissues in the shoulder
    * Tumor in or around the shoulder 

Your doctor may not recommend this surgery if you have:

    * History of infection, which can spread to the replaced joint
    * Severe mental dysfunction
    * Unhealthy skin around the shoulder area
    * Very weak (rotator cuff) muscles around the shoulder that cannot be fixed during surgery 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines or breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clot, or infection 

Risks of shoulder replacement surgery are:

    * Allergic reaction to the artificial joint
    * Blood vessel damage during surgery
    * Bone break during surgery
    * Nerve damage during surgery
    * Dislocation of the artificial joint
    * Loosening of the implant over time 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking. This includes
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinners. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), and clopidogrel (Plavix).
    * Ask your doctor which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will ask you to see your doctor who treats you for these conditions.
    * Tell your doctor if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow wound and bone healing.
    * Let your doctor know right away if you get a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness before your surgery.

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Be sure to arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

After the procedure:

    * You may stay in the hospital for 1 to 3 days after your surgery.
    * While there, you may receive physical therapy to help keep the muscles around your shoulder from getting stiff.
    * Before you go home, the physical therapist will teach you how to move your arm around by using your other (good) arm to help.
    * Your arm will need to be in a sling for 2 to 6 weeks with no active movement and 3 months before strengthening. It will be around 4 to 6 months of recovery.
    * Follow any instructions you are given about how to care for your shoulder at home. This includes activities that you should not do.
    * You will be given instructions on shoulder exercises to do at home. Follow these instructions exactly. Doing the exercises in a wrong way can injure your new shoulder. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Shoulder replacement surgery relieves pain and stiffness for most people. You
should be able to resume your normal daily activities without much problem.
Many people are able to return to sports such as golf, swimming, gardening,
bowling, and others.

Your new shoulder joint will last longer if less stress is placed on it. With
normal use, a new shoulder joint can last for at least 10 years.

## Alternative Names

Total shoulder arthroplasty; Endoprosthetic shoulder replacement; Partial
shoulder replacement; Partial shoulder arthroplasty; Replacement - shoulder;
Arthroplasty - shoulder

## Patient Instructions

    * Shoulder replacement - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery

## References

American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons website. Reverse total shoulder
replacement. orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/treatment/reverse-total-shoulder-
replacement. Updated March 2017. Accessed December 10, 2018.

Matsen FA, Lippitt SB, Rockwood CA, Wirth MA. Glenohumeral arthritis and its
management. In: Rockwood CA, Matsen FA, Wirth MA, Lippitt SB, Fehringer EV,
Sperling JW, eds. _Rockwood and Matsen's The Shoulder_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rotator Cuff
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RotatorCuffInjuries_thumb.jpg)Rotator
Cuff Injuries _Read more_

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Shoulder
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

