Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000358.htm    
                                Description: The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that attach to the bones of the shoulder joint, allowing the shoulder to move and remain stable. The tendons can be torn from overuse or injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rotator cuff - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000358.htm

# Rotator cuff - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that attach to the bones of
the shoulder joint, allowing the shoulder to move and remain stable. The
tendons can be torn from overuse or injury.

Pain relief measures, using the shoulder properly, and shoulder exercises may
help ease your symptoms.

## Rotator Cuff Problems

Common rotator cuff problems include:

    * Tendinitis, which is inflammation of the tendons and swelling of the bursa (a normally smooth layer) lining these tendons
    * A tear, which occurs when one of the tendons is torn from overuse or injury 

## Relieving the Pain

Medicines, such as ibuprofen or naproxen, may help reduce swelling and pain.
If you take these medicines every day, tell your doctor so that your general
health can be monitored.

Moist heat, such as a hot bath, shower, or a heat pack, can help when you feel
pain in your shoulder. An ice pack applied to the shoulder 20 minutes at a
time, 3 to 4 times a day, may also help when you are in pain. Wrap the ice
pack in a clean towel or cloth. DO NOT place it directly on the shoulder.
Doing so may cause frostbite.

## Using Your Shoulder

Learn how to care for your shoulder to avoid placing extra stress on it. This
can help you heal from an injury and avoid re-injury.

Your positions and posture during the day and night can also help relieve some
of your shoulder pain:

    * When you sleep, lie either on the side that is not in pain or on your back. Resting your painful shoulder on a couple of pillows may help.
    * When sitting, use good posture. Keep your head over your shoulder and place a towel or pillow behind your lower back. Keep your feet either flat on the floor or up on a foot stool.
    * Practice good posture in general to keep your shoulder blade and joint in their right positions. 

Other tips for taking care of your shoulder include:

    * DO NOT carry a backpack or purse over just one shoulder.
    * DO NOT work with your arms above shoulder level for very long. If needed, use a foot stool or ladder.
    * Lift and carry objects close to your body. Try not to lift heavy loads away from your body or overhead.
    * Take regular breaks from any activity you do over and over again.
    * When reaching for something with your arm, your thumb should be pointing up.
    * Store items you use every day in places you can reach easily.
    * Keep things that you use a lot, such as your phone, with you or close by to avoid reaching and re-injuring your shoulder. 

## Physical Therapy and Exercises

Your doctor will likely refer you to a physical therapist to learn exercises
for your shoulder.

    * You may start with passive exercises. These are exercises the therapist will do with your arm. Or, you can use your good arm to move the injured arm. The exercises may help get the full movement back in your shoulder.
    * After that, you will do exercises the therapist teaches you to strengthen your shoulder muscles. 

## Returning to Sports

It is best to avoid playing sports until you have no pain during rest or
activity. Also, when examined by your doctor or physical therapist, you should
have:

    * Full strength in the muscles around your shoulder joint
    * Good range of motion of your shoulder blade and upper spine
    * No pain during certain physical exam tests that are meant to provoke pain in someone who has rotator cuff problems
    * No abnormal movement of your shoulder joint and shoulder blade 

Returning to sports and other activity should be gradual. Ask your physical
therapist about the proper technique you should use when doing your sports or
other activities that involve a lot of shoulder movement.

## Images

    * ![Rotator cuff muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19622t.jpg)Rotator cuff muscles

## References

Finnoff JT. Upper limb pain and dysfunction. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016: chap 35.

Rudolph GH, Moen T, Garofalo R, Krishnan SG. Rotator cuff and impingement
lesions. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 52.

Whittle S, Buchbinder R. In the clinic. Rotator cuff disease. _Ann Intern
Med_. 2015;162(1):ITC1-ITC15. PMID: 25560729
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25560729.

## Read More

    * Rotator cuff problems
    * Rotator cuff repair 
    * Shoulder arthroscopy
    * Shoulder CT scan
    * Shoulder MRI scan
    * Shoulder pain

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Rotator Cuff Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

