Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001109.htm    
                                Description: Varicose veins are swollen, twisted, and enlarged veins that you can see under the skin. They are often red or blue in color. They most often appear in the legs, but can occur in other parts of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Varicose veins

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001109.htm

# Varicose veins

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Varicose veins are swollen, twisted, and enlarged veins that you can see under
the skin. They are often red or blue in color. They most often appear in the
legs, but can occur in other parts of the body.

## Causes

Normally, one-way valves in your leg veins keep blood moving up toward the
heart. When the valves do not work properly, they allow blood to back up into
the vein. The vein swells from the blood that collects there, which causes
varicose veins.

Varicose veins are common, and affect more women than men. They do not cause
problems for most people. However, if the flow of blood through veins becomes
worse, problems such as leg swelling and pain, blood clots, and skin changes
may be present.

Risk factors include:

    * Older age
    * Being female (hormonal changes from puberty, pregnancy, and menopause can lead to varicose veins, and taking birth control pills or hormone replacement can increase your risk)
    * Being born with defective valves
    * Obesity
    * Pregnancy
    * History of blood clots in your legs
    * Standing or sitting for long periods of time
    * Family history of varicose veins 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of varicose veins include:

    * Fullness, heaviness, aching, and sometimes pain in the legs
    * Visible, swollen veins
    * Smaller veins that you can see on the surface of the skin, called spider veins.
    * Thigh or calf cramps (often at night)
    * Mild swelling of feet or ankles
    * Itching 

If flow of blood through the veins becomes worse, symptoms may include:

    * Leg swelling
    * Leg or calf pain after sitting or standing for long periods
    * Skin color changes of the legs or ankles
    * Dry, irritated, scaly skin that can crack easily
    * Skin sores (ulcers) that do not heal easily
    * Thickening and hardening of the skin in the legs and ankles (this can happen over time) 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your legs to look for swelling, changes
in skin color, or sores. Your provider also may:

    * Check blood flow in the veins
    * Rule out other problems with the legs (such as a blood clot) 
![Varicose veins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19705.jpg)

## Treatment

Your provider may suggest that you take the following self-care steps to help
manage varicose veins:

    * Wear compression stockings to decrease swelling. These stockings gently squeeze your legs to move blood up toward your heart.
    * DO NOT sit or stand for long periods. Even moving your legs slightly helps keep the blood flowing.
    * Raise your legs above your heart 3 or 4 times a day for 15 minutes at a time.
    * Care for wounds if you have any open sores or infections. Your provider can show you how.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * Get more exercise. This can help you keep off weight and help move blood up your legs. Walking or swimming are good options.
    * If you have dry or cracked skin on your legs, moisturizing may help. However, some skin care treatments can make the problem worse. Talk to your provider before using any lotions, creams, or antibiotic ointments. Your provider can recommend lotions that can help. 

If only a small number of varicose veins are present, the following procedures
may be used:

    * Sclerotherapy. Salt water or a chemical solution is injected into the vein. The vein hardens and disappears.
    * Phlebectomy. Small surgical cuts are made in the leg near the damaged vein. The vein is removed through one of the cuts. 

If the varicose veins are larger, longer, or more widespread on the leg, your
provider will suggest one of the following:

    * Procedures that can be done in a provider's office or clinic, such as using a laser or radiofrequency.
    * Varicose vein stripping, used to remove or tie off a large vein in the leg called the superficial saphenous vein. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Varicose veins tend to get worse over time. Taking self-care steps can help
relieve achiness and pain, keep varicose veins from getting worse, and prevent
more serious problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Varicose veins are painful.
    * They get worse or do not improve with self-care, such as by wearing compression stockings or avoiding standing or sitting for too long.
    * You have a sudden increase in pain or swelling, fever, redness of the leg, or leg sores.
    * You develop leg sores that do not heal.

## Alternative Names

Varicosity

## Patient Instructions

    * Varicose veins - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Varicose veins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19705t.jpg)Varicose veins

## References

Freischlag JA, Heller JA. Venous disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 64.

Iafrati MD, O'Donnell TF. Varicose veins: surgical treatment. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 154.

Sadek M, Kabnick LS. Varicose veins: endovenous ablation and sclerotherapy.
In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 155.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Varicose
Veins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaricoseVeins_thumb.jpg)Varicose Veins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

