Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007395.htm    
                                Description: Varicose veins are swollen, twisted, painful veins that have filled with blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Varicose vein - noninvasive treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007395.htm

# Varicose vein - noninvasive treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Varicose veins are swollen, twisted, painful veins that have filled with
blood.

## Description

Varicose veins most often develop in the legs. They often stick out and are
blue in color.

    * Normally, valves in your veins keep your blood flowing up toward the heart, so the blood does not collect in one place.
    * The valves in varicose veins are either damaged or missing. This causes the veins to become filled with blood, especially when you are standing. 

The following treatments for varicose veins can be done in a health care
provider's office or clinic. You will receive local anesthesia to numb your
leg. You will be awake, but will not feel pain.

 **Sclerotherapy** works best for spider veins. These are small varicose
veins.

    * Salt water (saline) or a chemical solution is injected into the varicose vein.
    * The vein will harden and then disappear. 

**Laser treatment** can be used on the surface of the skin. Small bursts of
light make small varicose veins disappear.

 **Phlebectomy** treats surface varicose veins. Very small cuts are made near
the damaged vein. Then the vein is removed. One method uses a light under the
skin to guide treatment.

This may be done along with other procedures, such as ablation.

 **Ablation** uses intense heat to treat the vein. There are two methods. One
uses radiofrequency energy and the other uses laser energy. During these
procedures:

    * Your doctor will puncture the varicose vein.
    * Your doctor will thread a flexible tube (catheter) through the vein.
    * The catheter will send intense heat to the vein. The heat will close off and destroy the vein and the vein will disappear over time. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may have varicose vein therapy to treat:

    * Varicose veins that cause problems with blood flow
    * Leg pain and feeling of heaviness
    * Skin changes or skin sores that are caused by too much pressure in the veins
    * Blood clots or swelling in the veins
    * Undesirable appearance of the leg

## Risks

These treatments are generally safe. Ask your provider about specific problems
that you might have.

The risks for any anesthesia and surgery are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, bruising, or infection 

The risks of varicose vein therapy are:

    * Blood clots
    * Nerve damage
    * Failure to close the vein
    * Opening of the treated vein
    * Vein irritation
    * Bruising or scarring
    * Return of the varicose vein over time 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant.
    * About any medicines you are taking. This includes drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

You may need to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin
(Coumadin), and other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.

## After the Procedure

Your legs will be wrapped with bandages to control swelling and bleeding for 2
to 3 days after your treatment.

You should be able to start normal activities within 1 to 2 days after
treatment. You will need to wear compression stockings during the day for 1
week after treatment.

Your leg may be checked using ultrasound a few days after treatment to make
sure the vein is sealed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

These treatments reduce pain and improve the appearance of the leg. Most of
the time, they cause very little scarring, bruising, or swelling.

Wearing compression stockings will help prevent the problem from returning.

## Alternative Names

Sclerotherapy; Laser therapy - varicose veins; Radiofrequency vein ablation;
Endovenous thermal ablation; Ambulatory phlebectomy; Transilluminated power
phlebotomy; Endovenous laser ablation; Varicose vein therapy

## Patient Instructions

    * Varicose veins - what to ask your doctor 

## References

Freischlag JA, Heller JA. Venous disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Goldman MP, Guex J-J. Mechanism of action of sclerotherapy. In: Goldman MP,
Weiss RA, eds. _Sclerotherapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
7.

Goldman MP, Weiss RA. Phlebology and treatment of leg veins. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 155.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Varicose
Veins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaricoseVeins_thumb.jpg)Varicose Veins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

