Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000256.htm    
                                Description: Varicose veins are abnormally swollen, twisted, or painful veins that are filled with blood. They most often occur in the legs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Varicose veins - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000256.htm

# Varicose veins - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Varicose veins are abnormally swollen, twisted, or painful veins that are
filled with blood. They most often occur in the legs.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your varicose veins.

## Questions

What are varicose veins?

    * What causes them? What makes them worse?
    * Do they always cause symptoms?
    * What sort of tests do I need if I have varicose veins? 

Do I need to treat my varicose veins? If I do not treat them, how quickly will
they get worse? Are there serious complications or problems if I do not treat
them?

Are there medicines that can treat my varicose veins?

What are compression (or pressure) stockings?

    * Where can I buy them?
    * Are there different types?
    * Which ones would be best for me?
    * Will they get rid of my varicose veins, or will I always need to wear them? 

Which procedures for varicose veins do you perform?

    * Sclerotherapy?
    * Heat ablation or laser ablation?
    * Vein stripping? 

Questions to ask about different procedures for varicose veins are:

    * How does this treatment work? When would it be a good choice for treating my varicose veins?
    * Where is this procedure done? Will I have any scars? What are the risks?
    * Will my varicose veins come back after this procedure? Will I still get new varicose veins on my legs? How soon?
    * Does this procedure work as well as other treatments for varicose veins? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about varicose veins; Venous insufficiency - what to
ask your doctor; Vein stripping - what to ask your doctor

## References

Goldman MP, Weiss RA. Phlebology and treatment of leg veins. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 155.

Iafrati MD, O'Donnell TF. Varicose veins: surgical treatment. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 154.

Sadek M, Kabnick LS. Varicose veins: endovenous ablation and sclerotherapy.
In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 155.

## Read More

    * Varicose vein - noninvasive treatment
    * Varicose veins
    * Varicose vein stripping

## Patient Instructions

    * Varicose veins - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Varicose Veins

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

