Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002952.htm    
                                Description: Vein stripping is surgery to remove varicose veins in the legs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Varicose vein stripping

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002952.htm

# Varicose vein stripping

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vein stripping is surgery to remove varicose veins in the legs.

## Description

Varicose veins are swollen, twisted, and enlarged veins that you can see under
the skin. They are often red or blue in color. They usually appear in the legs
but can occur in other parts of the body.

Normally, valves in your veins keep your blood flowing up toward the heart, so
the blood does not collect in one place. The valves in varicose veins are
either damaged or missing. This causes the veins to become filled with blood,
particularly when you are standing.

Vein stripping is used to remove or tie off a large vein in the leg called the
superficial saphenous vein. This helps treat varicose veins.

Vein stripping usually takes about 1 to 1 1/2 hours. You may receive either:

    * General anesthesia, in which you will be asleep and unable to feel pain.
    * Spinal anesthesia, which will make the lower half of your body feel numb. You may also get medicine to help you relax. 

During surgery:

    * Your surgeon will make 2 or 3 small cuts in your leg.
    * The cuts are near the top, middle, and bottom of your damaged vein. One is in your groin. The other will be farther down your leg, either in your calf or ankle.
    * Your surgeon will then thread a thin, flexible plastic wire into the vein through your groin and guide the wire through the vein toward the other cut farther down your leg.
    * The wire is then tied to the vein and pulled out through the lower cut, which pulls the vein out with it.
    * If you have other damaged veins near the surface of your skin, your surgeon may also make small cuts over them to remove them or tie them off. This is called ambulatory phlebectomy.
    * The surgeon will close the cuts with stitches.
    * You will wear bandages and compression stockings on your leg after the procedure. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The provider may recommend vein stripping for:

    * Varicose veins that cause problems with blood flow
    * Leg pain and heaviness
    * Skin changes or sores that are caused by too much pressure in the veins
    * Blood clots or swelling in the veins
    * Improving the appearance of your leg
    * Varicose veins that can't be treated with newer procedures 

Today, doctors are rarely performing vein stripping surgeries because there
are newer, non-surgical ways to treat varicose veins that don't require
general anesthesia and are done without an overnight hospital stay. These
treatments are less painful, have better results, and have a much faster
recovery time.

## Risks

Vein stripping is usually safe. Ask your provider about any problems that
might occur.

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection

The risks from vein stripping include:

    * Bruising or scarring
    * Nerve injury
    * Return of varicose veins over time

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What drugs you are taking, including drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription
    * If you have been drinking more than 1 or 2 alcoholic drinks a day

During the days before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin), and other drugs.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything for at least 6 to 8 hours before surgery.
    * Take your prescribed medicines with a small sip of water.

## After the Procedure

Your legs will be wrapped with bandages to control swelling and bleeding for 3
to 5 days after surgery. You may need to keep them wrapped for several weeks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgical vein stripping reduces pain and improves the appearance of your leg.
Rarely, vein stripping causes scars. Mild leg swelling can occur. Be sure you
regularly wear compression stockings.

## Alternative Names

Vein stripping with ligation; Vein stripping with avulsion; Vein stripping
with ablation; Vein ligation and stripping; Vein surgery; Venous insufficiency
- vein stripping; Venous reflux - vein stripping; Venous ulcer - veins

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open
    * Varicose veins - what to ask your doctor 

## References

Freischlag JA, Heller JA. Venous disease. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Iafrati MD, O'Donnell TF. Varicose veins: surgical treatment. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 154.

Ma H, Iafrati MD. Varicose vein stripping and ambulatory phlebectomy. In:
Chaikof EL, Cambria RP, eds. _Atlas of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 59.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Varicose
Veins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaricoseVeins_thumb.jpg)Varicose Veins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

