Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000615.htm    
                                Description: Blood flows slowly from the veins in your legs back to your heart. Due to gravity, blood tends to pool in your legs, primarily when you stand. As a result, you may have:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Varicose and other vein problems - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000615.htm

# Varicose and other vein problems - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood flows slowly from the veins in your legs back to your heart. Due to
gravity, blood tends to pool in your legs, primarily when you stand. As a
result, you may have:

    * Varicose veins
    * Swelling in your legs
    * Skin changes or even a skin ulcer (sore) in your lower legs 

These problems most often get worse over time. Learn self-care that you can do
at home to:

    * Slow down the development of varicose veins
    * Decrease any discomfort
    * Prevent skin ulcers 

## Wear Compression Stockings

Compression stockings help with swelling in your legs. They gently squeeze
your legs to move blood up your legs.

Your health care provider will help you find where to buy these and how to use
them.

## Make Time to Exercise

Do gentle exercises to build muscle and to move blood up your legs. Here are
some suggestions:

    * Lie on your back. Move your legs like you are riding a bike. Extend one leg straight up and bend the other leg. Then switch your legs.
    * Stand on a step on the balls of your feet. Keep your heels over the edge of the step. Stand on your toes to raise your heels, then let your heels drop below the step. Stretch your calf. Do 20 to 40 repeats of this stretch.
    * Take a gentle walk. Walk for 30 minutes 4 times a week.
    * Take a gentle swim. Swim for 30 minutes 4 times a week. 

## Put Your Feet up

Raising your legs helps with pain and swelling. You can:

    * Raise your legs on a pillow when you are resting or sleeping.
    * Raise your legs above your heart 3 or 4 times a day for 15 minutes at a time. 

DO NOT sit or stand for long periods of time. When you do sit or stand, bend
and straighten your legs every few minutes to keep the blood in your legs
moving back to your heart.

## Take Care of Your Skin

Keeping your skin well moisturized helps it stay healthy. Talk with your
provider before using any lotions, creams, or antibiotic ointments. DO NOT
use:

    * Topical antibiotics, such as neomycin
    * Drying lotions, such as calamine
    * Lanolin, a natural moisturizer
    * Benzocaine or other creams that numb the skin

Watch for skin sores on your leg, mainly around your ankle. Take care of sores
right away to prevent infection.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Varicose veins are painful.
    * Varicose veins are getting worse.
    * Putting your legs up or not standing for a long time is not helping.
    * You have a fever or redness in your leg.
    * You have a sudden increase in pain or swelling.
    * You get leg sores.

## Alternative Names

Venous insufficiency - self-care; Venous stasis ulcers - self-care;
Lipodermatosclerosis - self-care

## References

Ginsberg JS. Peripheral venous disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 81.

Hafner A, Sprecher E. Ulcers. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 105.

Pascarella L, Shortell CK. Chronic venous disorders: nonoperative management.
In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 157.

## Review Date 10/13/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Varicose Veins

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

