Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003284.htm    
                                Description: Telangiectasias are small, widened blood vessels on the skin. They are usually harmless, but may be associated with several diseases.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Telangiectasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003284.htm

# Telangiectasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Telangiectasias are small, widened blood vessels on the skin. They are usually
harmless, but may be associated with several diseases.

## Causes

Telangiectasias may develop anywhere within the body. But they are most easily
seen on the skin, mucous membranes, and whites of the eyes. Usually, they do
not cause symptoms. Some telangiectasias bleed and cause significant problems.
Telangiectasias may also occur in the brain or intestines and cause major
problems from bleeding.

Causes may include:

    * Rosacea (skin problem that causes the face to turn red)
    * Aging
    * Problem with genes
    * Pregnancy
    * Sun exposure
    * Varicose veins
    * Overuse of steroid creams
    * Trauma to the area 

Diseases associated with this condition include:

    * Ataxia-telangiectasia (disease that affects the skin, balance and coordination, and other areas of the body)
    * Bloom syndrome (inherited disease that causes short stature, skin sensitivity to ultraviolet rays of the sun, and redness of the face)
    * Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (skin disease causing patches of redness)
    * Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome)
    * Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome (disease that causes port-wine stain, varicose veins, and soft tissue problems)
    * Nevus flammeus such as port-wine stain
    * Rosacea (skin condition that causes redness of the face)
    * Sturge-Weber disease (disease that involves port-wine stain and nervous system problems)
    * Xeroderma pigmentosa (disease in which the skin as well as the tissue covering the eye are extremely sensitive to ultraviolet light)
    * Lupus (immune system disease)
    * CREST syndrome (a type of scleroderma that involves the buildup of scar-like tissue in the skin and elsewhere in the body and damages the cells that line the walls of small arteries) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice enlarged vessels in the skin,
mucous membranes, or eyes.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms,
including:

    * Where are the blood vessels located?
    * Do they bleed easily and without reason?
    * What other symptoms are present? 

Tests may be needed to diagnose or rule out a medical condition. Tests may
include:

    * Blood tests
    * CT scans
    * Liver function studies
    * MRI scans
    * X-rays 

Sclerotherapy is the treatment for telangiectasias on the legs. In this
procedure, a saline (salt) solution or other chemical is injected directly
into the spider veins on the legs. Laser treatment is typically used to treat
telangiectasias of the face.

## Alternative Names

Vascular ectasias; Spider angioma

## Images

    * ![Angioma serpiginosum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2099t.jpg)Angioma serpiginosum
    * ![Telangiectasia - legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2998t.jpg)Telangiectasia - legs
    * ![Telangiectasias - upper arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3001t.jpg)Telangiectasias - upper arm

## References

Kelly R, Baker C. Other vascular disorders. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
106.

Patterson JW. Vascular tumors. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Varicose
Veins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaricoseVeins_thumb.jpg)Varicose Veins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

