Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007238.htm    
                                Description: Maternal substance abuse may consist of any combination of drug, chemical, alcohol, and tobacco use during the pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Infant of a substance using mother

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007238.htm

# Infant of a substance using mother

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Maternal substance abuse may consist of any combination of drug, chemical,
alcohol, and tobacco use during the pregnancy.

While in the womb, a fetus grows and develops due to nourishment from the
mother via the placenta. However, along with nutrients, any toxins in the
mother's system may be delivered to the fetus. These toxins may cause damage
to the developing fetal organs. A baby also may become dependent on substances
used by the mother.

WHAT ARE THE SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS SEEN IN AN INFANT OF A SUBSTANCE-ABUSING
MOTHER?

Babies born to substance-abusing mothers may have short- or long-term effects.

    * Short-term withdrawal symptoms may consist only of mild fussiness.
    * More severe findings may include acting irritable or jittery, feeding problems, and diarrhea. Symptoms vary depending on which substances were used.
    * The diagnosis for babies with signs of withdrawal may be confirmed with drug tests of the baby's urine or stool. The mother's urine will also be tested.

More significant long-term developmental problems may be seen in babies who
are born with growth failure or various organ problems.

    * Infants born to mothers who drink alcohol, even in modest amounts, are at risk for fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). This condition consists of growth problems, unusual facial features, and intellectual disability. It may not be detected at time of birth.
    * Other drugs may cause birth defects involving the heart, brain, bowel, or kidneys.
    * Babies who have been exposed to drugs, alcohol, or tobacco are at higher risk for SIDS (sudden infant death syndrome).

WHAT IS THE TREATMENT FOR AN INFANT OF A SUBSTANCE-ABUSING MOTHER?

The baby's treatment will depend on the drugs the mother used. Treatment may
involve:

    * Limiting noise and bright lights
    * Maximizing "TLC" (tender loving care)
    * Using medicines (for some)

In the case of babies whose mothers used narcotics, the baby is most often
given small doses of a narcotic at first. The amount is slowly adjusted as the
baby is weaned off of the substance over days to weeks. Sedatives are
sometimes used as well.

Infants with organ damage, birth defects or developmental issues may need
medical or surgical therapy and long-term therapies.

In addition, these infants are more likely to grow up in homes that do not
promote healthy emotional and mental growth.

## Alternative Names

IUDE; Intrauterine drug exposure; Maternal drug abuse; Maternal substance use;
Maternal drug use; Narcotic exposure - infant; Substance use disorder - infant

## Images

    * ![Substance use during pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21728t.jpg)Substance use during pregnancy

## References

Hudak M. Infants with antenatal exposure to drugs. In: Martin RM, Fanaroff AA,
Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 53.

Wallen LD, Gleason CA. Prenatal drug exposure. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds.
_Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 13.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy and
Drug Use _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PregnancyandOpioids_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy and
Opioids _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

