Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007454.htm    
                                Description: Pregnant women are strongly urged not to drink alcohol during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alcohol and pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007454.htm

# Alcohol and pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pregnant women are strongly urged not to drink alcohol during pregnancy.

Drinking alcohol while pregnant has been shown to cause harm to a baby as it
develops in the womb. Alcohol used during pregnancy may also lead to long-term
medical problems and birth defects.

## Information

When a pregnant woman drinks alcohol, the alcohol travels through her blood
and into the baby's blood, tissues, and organs. Alcohol breaks down much more
slowly in the baby's body than in an adult. That means the baby's blood
alcohol level remains increased longer than the mother's. This can harm the
baby and can sometimes lead to lifelong damage.

DANGERS OF ALCOHOL DURING PREGNANCY

Drinking a lot of alcohol during pregnancy can lead to a group of defects in
the baby known as fetal alcohol syndrome. Symptoms can include:

    * Behavior and attention problems
    * Heart defects
    * Changes in the shape of the face
    * Poor growth before and after birth
    * Poor muscle tone and problems with movement and balance
    * Problems with thinking and speech
    * Learning problems 

These medical problems are lifelong and can range from mild to severe.

Complications seen in the infant may include:

    * Cerebral palsy
    * Premature delivery
    * Pregnancy loss or stillbirth 

HOW MUCH ALCOHOL IS SAFE?

There is no known "safe" amount of alcohol use during pregnancy. Alcohol use
appears to be the most harmful during the first 3 months of pregnancy;
however, drinking alcohol anytime during pregnancy can be harmful.

Alcohol includes beer, wine, wine coolers, and liquor.

One drink is defined as:

    * 12 oz of beer
    * 5 oz of wine
    * 1.5 oz of liquor 

How much you drink is just as important as how often you drink.

    * Even if you don't drink often, drinking a large amount at 1 time can harm the baby.
    * Binge drinking (5 or more drinks on 1 sitting) greatly increases a baby's risk of developing alcohol-related damage.
    * Drinking moderate amounts of alcohol when pregnant may lead to miscarriage.
    * Heavy drinkers (those who drink more than 2 alcoholic beverages a day) are at greater risk of giving birth to a child with fetal alcohol syndrome.
    * The more you drink, the more you raise your baby's risk for harm. 

DO NOT DRINK DURING PREGNANCY

Women who are pregnant or who are trying to get pregnant should avoid drinking
any amount of alcohol. The only way to prevent fetal alcohol syndrome is to
not drink alcohol during pregnancy.

If you did not know you were pregnant and drank alcohol, stop drinking as soon
as you learn you are pregnant. The sooner you stop drinking alcohol, the
healthier your baby will be.

Choose nonalcoholic versions of beverages you like.

If you cannot control your drinking, avoid being around other people who are
using alcohol.

Pregnant women with alcoholism should join an alcohol abuse rehabilitation
program. They should also be followed closely by a health care provider.

The following organization may be of help:

    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration -- 1-800-662-4357 www.findtreatment.gov

## Alternative Names

Drinking alcohol during pregnancy; Fetal alcohol syndrome - pregnancy; FAS -
fetal alcohol syndrome

## References

Niebyl JR, Weber RJ, Briggs GG. Drugs and environmental gents in pregnancy and
lactation. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

Prasad MR, Jones HE. Substance abuse in pregnancy. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R,
Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 67.

Wallen LD, Gleason CA. Prenatal drug exposure. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds.
_Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy and
Drug Use _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

