Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000695.htm    
                                Description: Generalized tonic-clonic seizure is a type of seizure that involves the entire body. It is also called grand mal seizure. The terms seizure, convulsion, or epilepsy are most often associated with generalized    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Generalized tonic-clonic seizure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000695.htm

# Generalized tonic-clonic seizure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Generalized tonic-clonic seizure is a type of seizure that involves the entire
body. It is also called grand mal seizure. The terms seizure, convulsion, or
epilepsy are most often associated with generalized tonic-clonic seizures.

## Causes

Seizures result from overactivity in the brain. Generalized tonic-clonic
seizures may occur in people of any age. They can occur once (single episode).
Or, they can occur as part of a repeated, chronic illness (epilepsy). Some
seizures are due to psychological problems (psychogenic).

## Symptoms

Many people with generalized tonic-clonic seizures have vision, taste, smell,
or sensory changes, hallucinations, or dizziness before the seizure. This is
called an aura.

The seizures often result in rigid muscles. This is followed by violent muscle
contractions and loss of alertness (consciousness). Other symptoms that occur
during the seizure may include:

    * Biting the cheek or tongue
    * Clenched teeth or jaw
    * Loss of urine or stool control (incontinence)
    * Stopped breathing or difficulty breathing
    * Blue skin color 

After the seizure, the person may have:

    * Confusion
    * Drowsiness or sleepiness that lasts for 1 hour or longer (called the post-ictal state)
    * Loss of memory (amnesia) about the seizure episode
    * Headache
    * Weakness of 1 side of the body for a few minutes to a few hours following seizure (called Todd paralysis) 

## Exams and Tests

The doctor will perform a physical exam. This will include a detailed check of
the brain and nervous system.

An EEG (electroencephalogram) will be done to check the electrical activity in
the brain. People with seizures often have abnormal electrical activity seen
on this test. In some cases, the test shows the area in the brain where the
seizures start. The brain may appear normal after a seizure or between
seizures.

Blood tests may also be ordered to check for other health problems that may be
causing the seizures.

Head CT or MRI scan may be done to find the cause and location of the problem
in the brain.

## Treatment

Treatment for tonic-clonic seizures includes medicines, changes in lifestyle
for adults and children, such as activity and diet, and sometimes surgery.
Your doctor can tell you more about these options.

## Alternative Names

Seizure - tonic-clonic; Seizure - grand mal; Grand mal seizure; Seizure -
generalized; Epilepsy - generalized seizure

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![First aid convulsions, part 1](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19590t.jpg)Convulsions - first aid - series

## References

Abou-Khalil BW, Gallagher MJ, Macdonald RL. Epilepsies. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Wiebe S. The epilepsies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 403.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Seizures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Seizure_thumb.jpg)Seizures _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

