Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000128.htm    
                                Description: You have epilepsy. People with epilepsy have seizures. A seizure is a sudden brief change in the electrical and chemical activity in the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epilepsy or seizures - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000128.htm

# Epilepsy or seizures - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have epilepsy. People with epilepsy have seizures. A seizure is a sudden
brief change in the electrical and chemical activity in the brain.

After you go home from the hospital, follow the health care provider's
instructions on self-care. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

In the hospital, the doctor gave you a physical and a nervous system
examination and did some tests to find out the cause of your seizures.

## What to Expect at Home

Your doctor sent you home with medicines to help keep you from having more
seizures. This is because the doctor concluded you were at risk of having more
seizures. After you get home, your doctor may still need to change the dosage
of your seizure drugs or add new medicines. This may be because your seizures
are not controlled, or you are having side effects.

## Activity and Lifestyle

You should get plenty of sleep and try to keep as regular a schedule as
possible. Try to avoid too much stress. Avoid alcohol as well as recreational
drug use.

Make sure your home is safe to help prevent injuries if a seizure takes place:

    * Keep your bathroom and bedroom doors unlocked. Keep these doors from being blocked.
    * Take showers only. DO NOT take baths because of the risk of drowning during a seizure.
    * When cooking, turn pot and pan handles toward the back of the stove.
    * Fill your plate or bowl near the stove instead of taking all of the food to the table.
    * If possible, replace all glass doors either with safety glass or plastic. 

Most people with seizures can have a very active lifestyle. You should still
plan ahead for the possible dangers of a certain activity. DO NOT do any
activity during which loss of consciousness would be dangerous. Wait until it
is clear that seizures are unlikely to occur. Safe activities include:

    * Jogging
    * Aerobics
    * Cross-country skiing
    * Tennis
    * Golf
    * Hiking
    * Bowling 

There should always be a lifeguard or buddy present when you go swimming. Wear
a helmet during bike riding, skiing, and similar activities. Ask your provider
if it is OK for you to play contact sports. Avoid activities during which
having a seizure would put you or someone else in danger.

Also ask if you should avoid places or situations that expose you to flashing
lights or contrasting patterns such as checks or stripes. In some people with
epilepsy, seizures can be triggered by flashing lights or patterns.

Wear a medical alert bracelet. Tell family, friends, and the people you work
with about your seizure disorder.

Driving your own car is generally safe and legal once the seizures are
controlled. State laws vary. You can get information about your state law from
your doctor and the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV).

## Seizure Medicines

Never stop taking seizure medicines without talking with your doctor. DO NOT
stop taking your seizure medicines just because your seizures have stopped.

Tips for taking your seizure medicines:

    * DO NOT skip a dose.
    * Get refills before you run out.
    * Keep seizure medicines in a safe place, away from children.
    * Store medicines in a dry place, in the bottle that they came in.
    * Dispose of expired medicines properly. Check with your pharmacy or online for a medicine take-back location near you. 

If you miss a dose:

    * Take it as soon as you remember.
    * Check with your doctor about what to do if you miss a dose for more than a few hours. There are many seizure medicines with different dosing schedules.
    * If you miss more than one dose, talk with your provider. Mistakes are unavoidable, and you may miss several doses at some point. So, it may be useful to have this discussion ahead of time rather than when it happens. 

Drinking alcohol or doing illegal drugs can cause seizures.

    * DO NOT drink alcohol if you take seizure medicines.
    * Using alcohol or illegal drugs will change the way your seizure medicines work in your body. This may increase the risk of seizures or side effects. 

Your provider will tell you when you need to check the blood level of your
seizure drug. Seizure drugs have side effects. If you started taking a new
drug recently, or your doctor changed the dosage of your seizure drug, these
side effects may go away. Always ask your doctor about the side effects you
may have and how to manage them.

Many seizure medicines can weaken the strength of your bones (osteoporosis).
Ask your doctor about how to reduce the risk of osteoporosis through exercise
and vitamin and mineral supplements.

For women during childbearing years:

    * If you are planning on becoming pregnant, talk to your doctor about your seizure medicines beforehand.
    * If you get pregnant while taking seizure medicines, talk to your doctor right away. Ask your doctor if there are certain vitamins and supplements you should take in addition to your prenatal vitamin to prevent birth defects.
    * Never stop taking your seizure medicines without talking to your doctor first. 

## How to Respond to a Seizure

Once a seizure starts, there is no way to stop it. Family members and
caregivers can only help make sure you are safe from further injury. They can
also call for help, if needed.

Your doctor may have prescribed a medicine that can be given during a
prolonged seizure to make it stop sooner. Tell your family about this medicine
and how to give the medicine to you when needed.

When a seizure starts, family members or caregivers should try to keep you
from falling. They should help you to the ground, in a safe area. They should
clear the area of furniture or other sharp objects. Caregivers should also:

    * Cushion your head.
    * Loosen tight clothing, particularly around your neck.
    * Turn you on your side. If vomiting occurs, turning you on your side helps make sure you do not inhale vomit into your lungs.
    * Stay with you until you recover or medical help arrives. Meanwhile, caregivers should monitor your pulse and rate of breathing (vital signs). 

Things your friends and family members should not do:

    * DO NOT restrain you (try to hold you down).
    * DO NOT place anything between your teeth during a seizure (including their fingers).
    * DO NOT move you unless you are in danger or near something hazardous.
    * DO NOT try to make you stop convulsing. You have no control over your seizures and are not aware of what is happening at the time.
    * DO NOT give you anything by mouth until the convulsions have stopped and you are fully awake and alert.
    * DO NOT start CPR unless the seizure has clearly stopped and you are not breathing or have no pulse. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * More frequent seizures than usual, or seizures starting again after being well controlled for a long period.
    * Side effects from medicines.
    * Unusual behavior that was not present before.
    * Weakness, problems with seeing, or balance problems that are new. 

Call 911 if:

    * This is the first time the person has had a seizure.
    * A seizure lasts more than 2 to 5 minutes.
    * The person does not wake up or have normal behavior after a seizure.
    * Another seizure starts before the person has fully returned to a state of awareness, after a previous seizure.
    * The person had a seizure in water.
    * The person is pregnant, injured, or has diabetes.
    * The person does not have a medical ID bracelet (instructions explaining what to do).
    * There is anything different about this seizure compared to the person's usual seizures. 

## Alternative Names

Focal seizure - discharge; Jacksonian seizure - discharge; Seizure - partial
(focal) - discharge; TLE - discharge; Seizure - temporal lobe - discharge;
Seizure - tonic-clonic - discharge; Seizure - grand mal - discharge; Grand mal
seizure - discharge; Seizure - generalized - discharge

## References

Abou-Khalil BW, Gallagher MJ, Macdonald RL. Epilepsies. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Epilepsy Foundation website. Staying safe. www.epilepsy.com/learn/seizure-
first-aid-and-safety/staying-safe. Updated October 23, 2013. Accessed
September 5, 2018.

Falcone T, Palombaro AM. Quality of life with epilepsy. In: Wyllie E, Gidal
BE, Goodkin HP, Loddenkemper T, Sirven JI, eds. _Wyllie's Treatment of
Epilepsy: Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott
William Wilkins; 2015:chap 95.

## Read More

    * Brain surgery
    * Epilepsy - overview
    * Seizures
    * Stereotactic radiosurgery - CyberKnife

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain surgery - discharge
    * Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy in children - discharge
    * Febrile seizures - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist & Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of Medicine,
Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Epilepsy
    * Seizures

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

