Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003200.htm    
                                Description: A seizure is the physical findings or changes in behavior that occur after an episode of abnormal electrical activity in the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Seizures

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003200.htm

# Seizures

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A seizure is the physical findings or changes in behavior that occur after an
episode of abnormal electrical activity in the brain.

The term "seizure" is often used interchangeably with "convulsion." During
convulsions a person has uncontrollable shaking that is rapid and rhythmic,
with the muscles contracting and relaxing repeatedly. There are many different
types of seizures. Some have mild symptoms without shaking.

## Considerations

It may be hard to tell if someone is having a seizure. Some seizures only
cause a person to have staring spells. These may go unnoticed.

Specific symptoms depend on which part of the brain is involved. Symptoms
occur suddenly and may include:

    * Brief blackout followed by a period of confusion (the person cannot remember for a short time)
    * Changes in behavior, such as picking at one's clothing
    * Drooling or frothing at the mouth
    * Eye movements
    * Grunting and snorting
    * Loss of bladder or bowel control
    * Mood changes, such as sudden anger, unexplainable fear, panic, joy, or laughter
    * Shaking of the entire body
    * Sudden falling
    * Tasting a bitter or metallic flavor
    * Teeth clenching
    * Temporary stop in breathing
    * Uncontrollable muscle spasms with twitching and jerking limbs

Symptoms may stop after a few seconds or minutes, or continue for up to 15
minutes. They rarely continue longer.

The person may have warning symptoms before the attack, such as:

    * Fear or anxiety
    * Nausea
    * Vertigo (feeling as if you are spinning or moving)
    * Visual symptoms (such as flashing bright lights, spots, or wavy lines before the eyes)

## Causes

Seizures of all types are caused by abnormal electrical activity in the brain.

Causes of seizures can include:

    * Abnormal levels of sodium or glucose in the blood
    * Brain infection, including meningitis and encephalitis
    * Brain injury that occurs to the baby during labor or childbirth
    * Brain problems that occur before birth (congenital brain defects)
    * Brain tumor (rare)
    * Drug abuse
    * Electric shock
    * Epilepsy
    * Fever (particularly in young children)
    * Head injury
    * Heart disease
    * Heat illness (heat intolerance)
    * High fever
    * Phenylketonuria (PKU), which can cause seizures in infants
    * Poisoning
    * Street drugs, such as angel dust (PCP), cocaine, amphetamines
    * Stroke
    * Toxemia of pregnancy
    * Toxin buildup in the body due to liver or kidney failure
    * Very high blood pressure (malignant hypertension)
    * Venomous bites and stings (snake bite)
    * Withdrawal from alcohol or certain medicines after using for a long time 

Sometimes, no cause can be found. This is called idiopathic seizures. They are
usually seen in children and young adults, but can occur at any age. There may
be a family history of epilepsy or seizures.

If seizures continue repeatedly after the underlying problem is treated, the
condition is called epilepsy.

## Home Care

Most seizures stop by themselves. But during a seizure, the person can be hurt
or injured.

When a seizure occurs, the main goal is to protect the person from injury:

    * Try to prevent a fall. Lay the person on the ground in a safe area. Clear the area of furniture or other sharp objects.
    * Cushion the person's head.
    * Loosen tight clothing, especially around the neck.
    * Turn the person on their side. If vomiting occurs, this helps make sure that the vomit is not inhaled into the lungs.
    * Look for a medical ID bracelet with seizure instructions.
    * Stay with the person until they recover, or until professional medical help arrives. 

Things friends and family members should NOT do:

    * DO NOT restrain (try to hold down) the person.
    * DO NOT place anything between the person's teeth during a seizure (including your fingers).
    * DO NOT move the person unless they are in danger or near something hazardous.
    * DO NOT try to make the person stop convulsing. They have no control over the seizure and are not aware of what is happening at the time.
    * DO NOT give the person anything by mouth until the convulsions have stopped and the person is fully awake and alert.
    * DO NOT start CPR unless the seizure has clearly stopped and the person is not breathing or has no pulse. 

If a baby or child has a seizure during a high fever, cool the child slowly
with lukewarm water. DO NOT place the child in a cold bath. Call your child's
health care provider and ask what you should do next. Also, ask if it is OK to
give the child acetaminophen (Tylenol) once they are awake.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or your local emergency number if:

    * This is the first time the person has had a seizure
    * A seizure lasts more than 2 to 5 minutes
    * The person does not awaken or have normal behavior after a seizure
    * Another seizure starts soon after a seizure ends
    * The person had a seizure in water
    * The person is pregnant, injured, or has diabetes
    * The person does not have a medical ID bracelet (instructions explaining what to do)
    * There is anything different about this seizure compared to the person's usual seizures 

Report all seizures to the person's provider. The provider may need to adjust
or change the person's medicines.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

A person who has had a new or severe seizure is usually seen in a hospital
emergency room. The provider will try to diagnose the type of seizure based on
the symptoms.

Tests will be done to rule out other medical conditions that cause seizures or
similar symptoms. This may include fainting, transient ischemic attack (TIA)
or stroke, panic attacks, migraine headaches, sleep disturbances, among
others.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * CT scan of the head or MRI of the head
    * EEG (usually not in the emergency room)
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) 

Further testing is needed if a person has:

    * A new seizure without a clear cause
    * Epilepsy (to make sure the person is taking the right amount of medicine) 

## Alternative Names

Secondary seizures; Reactive seizures; Seizure - secondary; Seizure -
reactive; Convulsions

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain aneurysm repair - discharge
    * Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy in children - discharge
    * Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge 
    * Febrile seizures - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Convulsions - first aid - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19590t.jpg)Convulsions - first aid - series

## References

Krumholz A, Wiebe S, Gronseth GS, et al. Evidence-based guideline: management
of an unprovoked first seizure in adults: report of the Guideline Development
Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Epilepsy
Society. _Neurology_. 2015;84(16):1705-1713. PMID: 25901057
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25901057.

Mikati MA, Tchapyjnikov D. Seizures in childhood. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 611.

Moeller JJ, Hirsch LJ. Diagnosis and classification of seizures and epilepsy.
In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

Rabin E, Jagoda AS. Seizures. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 92.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Internal review and update on 07/12/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Seizures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Seizure_thumb.jpg)Seizures _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

