Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000223.htm    
                                Description: Your child has had a febrile seizure. A simple febrile seizure stops by itself within a few seconds to a few minutes. It is most often followed by a brief period of drowsiness or confusion. The first febrile    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Febrile seizures - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000223.htm

# Febrile seizures - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has had a febrile seizure. A simple febrile seizure stops by itself
within a few seconds to a few minutes. It is most often followed by a brief
period of drowsiness or confusion. The first febrile seizure is a frightening
moment for parents.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your child's febrile seizures.

## Questions

Will my child have any brain damage from the febrile seizure?

Will my child have any more seizures?

    * Is my child more likely to have a seizure the next time he or she has a fever?
    * Is there anything I can do to prevent another seizure? 

Does my child need medicine for seizures? Does my child need to see a provider
who takes care of people with seizures?

Do I need to take any safety measures at home to keep my child safe in case
there is another seizure?

Do I need to discuss this seizure with my child's teacher? Can my child
participate in gym class and recess when my child goes back to school or day
care?

Are there any sports activities that my child should not do? Does my child
need to wear a helmet for any type of activities?

Will I always be able to tell if my child is having a seizure?

What should I do if my child has another seizure?

    * When should I call 911?
    * After the seizure is over, what should I do?
    * When should I call the doctor? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about febrile seizures

## References

Mick NW. Pediatric fever. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 166.

Mikati MA, Hani AJ. Seizures in childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 593.

## Read More

    * Epilepsy - overview
    * Febrile seizures
    * Fever
    * Seizures

## Patient Instructions

    * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge 

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Seizures

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

