Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000696.htm    
                                Description: An absence seizure is the term for a type of seizure involving staring spells. This type of seizure is a brief (usually less than 15 seconds) disturbance of brain function due to abnormal electrical activity    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Absence seizure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000696.htm

# Absence seizure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An absence seizure is the term for a type of seizure involving staring spells.
This type of seizure is a brief (usually less than 15 seconds) disturbance of
brain function due to abnormal electrical activity in the brain.

## Causes

Seizures result from overactivity in the brain. Absence seizures occur most
often in people under age 20, usually in children ages 6 to 12.

In some cases, the seizures are triggered by flashing lights or when the
person breathes faster and more deeply than usual (hyperventilates).

They may occur with other types of seizures, such as generalized tonic-clonic
seizures (grand mal seizures), twitches or jerks (myoclonus), or sudden loss
of muscle strength (atonic seizures).

## Symptoms

Most absence seizures last only a few seconds. They often involve staring
episodes. The episodes may:

    * Occur many times a day
    * Occur for weeks to months before being noticed
    * Interfere with school and learning
    * Be mistaken for lack of attention, daydreaming or other misbehavior 

Unexplained difficulties in school and learning difficulties may be the first
sign of absence seizures.

During the seizure, the person may:

    * Stop walking and start again a few seconds later
    * Stop talking in mid-sentence and start again a few seconds later 

The person usually does not fall during the seizure.

Right after the seizure, the person is usually:

    * Wide awake
    * Thinking clearly
    * Unaware of the seizure 

Specific symptoms of typical absence seizures may include:

    * Changes in muscle activity, such as no movement, hand fumbling, fluttering eyelids, lip smacking, chewing
    * Changes in alertness (consciousness), such as staring episodes, lack of awareness of surroundings, sudden halt in movement, talking, and other awake activities

Some absence seizures begin slower and last longer. These are called atypical
absence seizures. Symptoms are similar to regular absence seizures, but muscle
activity changes may be more noticeable.

## Exams and Tests

The doctor will perform a physical exam. This will include a detailed look at
the brain and nervous system.

An EEG (electroencephalogram) will be done to check the electrical activity in
the brain. People with seizures often have abnormal electrical activity seen
on this test. In some cases, the test shows the area in the brain where the
seizures start. The brain may appear normal after a seizure or between
seizures.

Blood tests may also be ordered to check for other health problems that may be
causing the seizures.

Head CT or MRI scan may be done to find the cause and location of the problem
in the brain.

## Treatment

Treatment for absence seizures includes medicines, changes in lifestyle for
adults and children, such as activity and diet, and sometimes surgery. Your
doctor can tell you more about these options.

## Alternative Names

Seizure - petit mal; Seizure - absence; Petit mal seizure; Epilepsy - absence
seizure

## Patient Instructions

    * Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Abou-Khalil BW, Gallagher MJ, Macdonald RL. Epilepsies. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Seizures (paroxysmal disorders). In: Marcdante KJ,
Kliegman RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 181.

Wiebe S. The epilepsies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 403.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Seizures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Seizure_thumb.jpg)Seizures _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

