Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000697.htm    
                                Description: All seizures are caused by abnormal electrical disturbances in the brain. Partial (focal) seizures occur when this electrical activity remains in a limited area of the brain. The seizures can sometimes    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Partial (focal) seizure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000697.htm

# Partial (focal) seizure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

All seizures are caused by abnormal electrical disturbances in the brain.
Partial (focal) seizures occur when this electrical activity remains in a
limited area of the brain. The seizures can sometimes turn into generalized
seizures, which affect the whole brain. This is called secondary
generalization.

Partial seizures can be divided into:

    * Simple, not affecting awareness or memory
    * Complex, affecting awareness or memory of events before, during, and immediately after the seizure, and affecting behavior 

## Causes

Partial seizures are the most common type of seizure in people 1 year and
older. In people older than 65 who have blood vessel disease of the brain or
brain tumors, partial seizures are very common.

## Symptoms

People with complex partial seizures may or may not remember any or all of the
symptoms or events during the seizure.

Depending on where in the brain the seizure starts, symptoms can include:

    * Abnormal muscle contraction, such as abnormal head or limb movements
    * Staring spells, sometimes with repetitive movements such as picking at clothes or lip smacking
    * Eyes moving from side to side
    * Abnormal sensations, such as numbness, tingling, crawling sensation (like ants crawling on the skin)
    * Hallucinations, seeing, smelling, or sometimes hearing things that are not there
    * Abdominal pain or discomfort
    * Nausea
    * Sweating
    * Flushed face
    * Dilated pupils
    * Rapid heart rate/pulse

Other symptoms may include:

    * Blackout spells, periods of time lost from memory
    * Changes in vision
    * Sensation of dÃ©jÃ vu (feeling like current place and time have been experienced before)
    * Changes in mood or emotion
    * Temporary inability to speak 

## Exams and Tests

The doctor will perform a physical exam. This will include a detailed look at
the brain and nervous system.

An EEG (electroencephalogram) will be done to check the electrical activity in
the brain. People with seizures often have abnormal electrical activity seen
on this test. In some cases, the test shows the area in the brain where the
seizures start. The brain may appear normal after a seizure or between
seizures.

Blood tests may also be ordered to check for other health problems that may be
causing the seizures.

Head CT or MRI scan may be done to find the cause and location of the problem
in the brain.

## Treatment

Treatment for partial focal seizures includes medicines, changes in lifestyle
for adults and children, such as activity and diet, and sometimes surgery.
Your doctor can tell you more about these options.

## Alternative Names

Focal seizure; Jacksonian seizure; Seizure - partial (focal); Temporal lobe
seizure; Epilepsy - partial seizures

## Patient Instructions

    * Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Abou-Khalil BW, Gallagher MJ, Macdonald RL. Epilepsies. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Wiebe S. The epilepsies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 403.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Seizures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Seizure_thumb.jpg)Seizures _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

