Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000626.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10; &#10;A stillbirth is when a baby dies in the womb during the last 20 weeks of pregnancy. A miscarriage is a fetal loss in the first half of pregnancy.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When your baby is stillborn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000626.htm

# When your baby is stillborn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stillbirth is when a baby dies in the womb during the last 20 weeks of
pregnancy. A miscarriage is a fetal loss in the first half of pregnancy.

## More About Stillbirth

About 1 in 160 pregnancies end in stillbirth. Stillbirth is less common than
in the past because of better pregnancy care. Up to one half of the time, the
reason for the stillbirth is never known.

Some factors that can cause stillbirth are:

    * Birth defects
    * Abnormal chromosomes
    * Infection in the mother or fetus
    * Injuries
    * Long-term (chronic) health conditions in the mother (diabetes, epilepsy, or high blood pressure)
    * Problems with the placenta that prevent the fetus from getting nourishment (such as placental detachment)
    * Sudden severe blood loss (hemorrhage) in the mother or fetus
    * Heart stoppage (cardiac arrest) in the mother or fetus
    * Umbilical cord problems 

Women at higher risk for stillbirth:

    * Are older than age 35 years
    * Are obese
    * Are carrying multiple babies (twins or more)
    * Are African American
    * Have had a past stillbirth
    * Have high blood pressure or diabetes
    * Have other medical conditions (like lupus)
    * Take drugs 

## What Will Happen?

The health care provider will use an ultrasound to confirm that the baby's
heart has stopped beating. If the woman's health is at risk, she will need to
deliver the baby right away. Otherwise, she can choose to have medicine to
start labor or wait for labor to begin on its own.

After the delivery, provider will look at the placenta, fetus, and umbilical
cord for signs of problems. The parents will be asked for permission to do
more detailed tests. These may include internal exams (autopsy), x-rays, and
genetic tests.

It is natural for parents to feel uneasy about these tests when they are
dealing with the loss of a baby. But learning the cause of the stillbirth can
help a woman have a healthy baby in the future. It may also help some parents
cope with their loss to know as much as they can.

## Coping With the Grief

Stillbirth is a tragic event for a family. The grief of a pregnancy loss can
raise the risk of postpartum depression. People cope with grief in different
ways. It may be helpful to talk to your provider or a counselor about your
feelings. Other things that can help you through the mourning are to:

    * Pay attention to your health. Eat and sleep well so your body stays strong.
    * Find ways to express your feelings. Joining a support group, talking to family and friends, and keeping a journal are some ways to express grief.
    * Educate yourself. Learning about the problem, what you might be able to do, and how other people have coped can help you.
    * Give yourself time to heal. Grieving is a process. Accept that it will take time to feel better. 

## The Risk for Stillbirth

Most women who have had a stillbirth are very likely to have a healthy
pregnancy in the future. Placenta and cord problems or chromosome defects are
unlikely to occur again. Some things you can do to help prevent another
stillbirth are:

    * Meet with a genetic counselor. If the baby died because of an inherited problem, you can learn your risks for the future.
    * Talk to your provider before you get pregnant. Make sure long-term (chronic) health problems like diabetes are in good control. Tell your provider about all your medicines, even the ones you buy without a prescription.
    * Lose weight if you're overweight. Obesity raises the risk of stillbirth. Ask your provider how to safely lose weight before you get pregnant.
    * Adopt good health habits. Smoking, drinking, and using street drugs are dangerous during pregnancy. Get help quitting before you get pregnant.
    * Get special prenatal care. Women who have had a stillbirth will be watched carefully during pregnancy. They may need special tests to monitor their baby's growth and well-being. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if you have any of the following problems:

    * Fever.
    * Heavy vaginal bleeding.
    * Sick feeling, throwing up, diarrhea, or abdominal pain.
    * Depression and a feeling like you cannot cope with what has happened.
    * Your baby has not moved as much as usual. After you eat and while you are sitting still, count the movements. Normally you should expect your baby to move 10 times in an hour.

## Alternative Names

Stillbirth; Fetal demise; Pregnancy - stillborn

## References

Reddy UM, Spong CY. Stillbirth. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ,
Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 45.

Simpson JL, Jauniaux ERM. Early pregnancy loss and stillbirth. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 27.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: Irina Burd, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Gynecology and
Obstetrics at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Stillbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

