Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002421.htm    
                                Description: Iodine is a trace mineral and a nutrient found naturally in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Iodine in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002421.htm

# Iodine in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Iodine is a trace mineral and a nutrient found naturally in the body.

## Function

Iodine is needed for the cells to change food into energy. Humans need iodine
for normal thyroid function, and for the production of thyroid hormones.

## Food Sources

Iodized salt is table salt with iodine added. It is the main food source of
iodine.

Seafood is naturally rich in iodine. Cod, sea bass, haddock, and perch are
good sources.

Kelp is the most common vegetable-seafood that is a rich source of iodine.

Dairy products also contain iodine.

Other good sources are plants grown in iodine-rich soil.

## Side Effects

Lack of enough iodine (deficiency) may occur in places that have iodine-poor
soil. Many months of iodine deficiency in a person's diet may cause goiter or
hypothyroidism. Without enough iodine, the thyroid cells and the thyroid gland
become enlarged.

Lack of iodine is more common in women than in men. It is also common in
pregnant women and older children. Getting enough iodine in the diet may
prevent a form of physical and mental abnormality called cretinism. Cretinism
is very rare in the United States because iodine deficiency is generally not a
problem.

Iodine poisoning is rare in the US. Very high intake of iodine can reduce the
function of the thyroid gland. Taking high doses of iodine with anti-thyroid
medicines can have an additive effect and could cause hypothyroidism.

## Recommendations

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods from the food guide plate.

Iodized table salt provides 45 micrograms of iodine in a 1/8 to 1/4 ounce
teaspoon portion. 1/4 teaspoon of 45 micrograms of iodine. A 3 oz portion of
cod provides 99 micrograms. Most people are able to meet the daily
recommendations by eating seafood, iodized salt, and plants grown in iodine-
rich soil. When buying salt make sure it is labeled "iodized."

The Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine recommends the
following dietary intake for iodine:

Infants

    * 0 to 6 months: 110 micrograms per day (mcg/day)*
    * 7 to 12 months: 130 mcg/day*

*AI or Adequate Intake

Children

    * 1 to 3 years: 90 mcg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 90 mcg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 120 mcg/day

Adolescents and adults

    * Males age 14 and older: 150 mcg/day
    * Females age 14 and older: 150 mcg/day
    * Pregnant females of all ages: 220 mcg/day
    * Lactating females of all ages: 290 mcg/day

Specific recommendations depend on age, gender, and other factors (such as
pregnancy). Women who are pregnant or producing breast milk (lactating) need
higher amounts. Ask your health care provider which amount is best for you.

## Alternative Names

Diet - iodine

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Smith B, Thompson J. Nutrition and growth. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital;
Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

