Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002423.htm    
                                Description: Magnesium is an essential mineral for human nutrition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Magnesium in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002423.htm

# Magnesium in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Magnesium is an essential mineral for human nutrition.

## Function

Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It
helps to maintain normal nerve and muscle function, supports a healthy immune
system, keeps the heartbeat steady, and helps bones remain strong. It also
helps adjust blood glucose levels. It aids in the production of energy and
protein.

There is ongoing research into the role of magnesium in preventing and
managing disorders such as high blood pressure, heart disease, and diabetes.
However, taking magnesium supplements is not currently advised. Diets high in
protein, calcium, or vitamin D will increase the need for magnesium.

## Food Sources

Most dietary magnesium comes from dark green, leafy vegetables. Other foods
that are good sources of magnesium are:

    * Fruits (such as bananas, dried apricots, and avocados)
    * Nuts (such as almonds and cashews)
    * Peas and beans (legumes), seeds
    * Soy products (such as soy flour and tofu)
    * Whole grains (such as brown rice and millet)
    * Milk

## Side Effects

Side effects from high magnesium intake are not common. The body generally
removes extra amounts. Magnesium excess most often occurs when a person is:

    * Taking in too much of the mineral in supplement form
    * Taking certain laxatives

Although you may not get enough magnesium from your diet, it is rare to be
truly lacking in magnesium. The symptoms of such a shortage include:

    * Hyperexcitability
    * Muscle weakness
    * Sleepiness

Lack of magnesium can occur in people who abuse alcohol or in those who absorb
less magnesium including:

    * People with gastrointestinal disease or surgery causing malabsorption
    * Older adults
    * People with type 2 diabetes

Symptoms due to a lack of magnesium have three categories.

Early symptoms:

    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Fatigue
    * Weakness

Moderate deficiency symptoms:

    * Numbness
    * Tingling
    * Muscle contractions and cramps
    * Seizures
    * Personality changes
    * Abnormal heart rhythms

Severe deficiency:

    * Low blood calcium level (hypocalcemia)
    * Low blood potassium level (hypokalemia)

## Recommendations

These are the recommended daily requirements of magnesium:

Infants

    * Birth to 6 months: 30 mg/day*
    * 6 months to 1 year: 75 mg/day*

*AI or Adequate Intake

Children

    * 1 to 3 years old: 80 milligrams
    * 4 to 8 years old: 130 milligrams
    * 9 to 13 years old: 240 milligrams
    * 14 to 18 years old (boys): 410 milligrams
    * 14 to 18 years old (girls): 360 milligrams

Adults

    * Adult males: 400 to 420 milligrams
    * Adult females: 310 to 320 milligrams
    * Pregnancy: 350 to 400 milligrams
    * Breastfeeding women: 310 to 360 milligrams

## Alternative Names

Diet - magnesium

## References

National Institutes of Health website. Magnesium: fact sheet for health
professionals.Â ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-HealthProfessional/#h5.
Updated September 26, 2018. Accessed May 20, 2019.

Yu ASL. Disorders of magnesium and phosphorus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 119.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

