Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002417.htm    
                                Description: Chloride is found in many chemicals and other substances in the body. It is one of the components of salt used in cooking and in some foods.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chloride in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002417.htm

# Chloride in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chloride is found in many chemicals and other substances in the body. It is
one of the components of salt used in cooking and in some foods.

## Function

Chloride is needed to keep the proper balance of body fluids. It is an
essential part of digestive (stomach) juices.

## Food Sources

Chloride is found in table salt or sea salt as sodium chloride. It is also
found in many vegetables. Foods with higher amounts of chloride include
seaweed, rye, tomatoes, lettuce, celery, and olives.

Chloride, combined with potassium, is also found in many foods. It is most
often the main ingredient in salt substitutes.

Most Americans probably get more chloride than they need from table salt and
the salt in prepared foods.

## Side Effects

Too little chloride in the body can occur when your body loses a lot of
fluids. This may be due to heavy sweating, vomiting, or diarrhea. Medicines
such as diuretics can also cause low chloride levels.

Too much sodium-chloride from salted foods can:

    * Increase your blood pressure
    * Cause a buildup of fluid in people with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, or kidney disease 

## Recommendations

Dosages for chloride, as well as other nutrients, are provided in the Dietary
Reference Intakes (DRIs) developed by the Food and Nutrition Board at the
Institute of Medicine. DRI is a term for a set of reference intakes that are
used to plan and assess the nutrient intakes of healthy people. These values,
which vary by age and gender, include:

    *  **Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA):** The average daily level of intake that is enough to meet the nutrient needs of nearly all (97% to 98%) healthy people. An RDA is an intake level based on scientific research evidence.
    *  **Adequate Intake (AI):** This level is established when there is not enough scientific research evidence to develop an RDA. It is set at a level that is thought to ensure enough nutrition.

Infants (AI)

    * 0 to 6 months old: 0.18 grams per day (g/day)
    * 7 to 12 months old: 0.57 g/day

Children (AI)

    * 1 to 3 years: 1.5 g/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 1.9 g/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 2.3 g/day

Adolescents and adults (AI)

    * Males and females, age 14 to 50: 2.3 g/day
    * Males and females, age 51 to 70: 2.0 g/day
    * Males and females, age 71 and over: 1.8 g/day
    * Pregnant and lactating females of all ages: 2.3 g/day

## References

Marshall WJ, Ayling RM. Nutrition: laboratory and clinical aspects. In: Rifai
N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th
ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 56.

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

