Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002416.htm    
                                Description: Zinc is an important trace mineral that people need to stay healthy. Of the trace minerals, this element is second only to iron in its concentration in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Zinc in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002416.htm

# Zinc in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Zinc is an important trace mineral that people need to stay healthy. Of the
trace minerals, this element is second only to iron in its concentration in
the body.

## Function

Zinc is found in cells throughout the body. It is needed for the body's
defensive (immune) system to properly work. It plays a role in cell division,
cell growth, wound healing, and the breakdown of carbohydrates.

Zinc is also needed for the senses of smell and taste. During pregnancy,
infancy, and childhood the body needs zinc to grow and develop properly. Zinc
also enhances the action of insulin.

Information from an expert review on zinc supplements showed that:

    * When taken for at least 5 months, zinc may reduce your risk of becoming sick with the common cold.
    * Starting to take zinc supplements within 24 hours after cold symptoms begin may reduce how long the symptoms last and make the symptoms less severe. However, supplementation beyond the RDA is not recommended at this time. 

## Food Sources

Animal proteins are a good source of zinc. Beef, pork, and lamb contain more
zinc than fish. The dark meat of a chicken has more zinc than the light meat.

Other good sources of zinc are nuts, whole grains, legumes, and yeast.

Fruits and vegetables are not good sources, because the zinc in plant proteins
is not as available for use by the body as the zinc from animal proteins.
Therefore, low-protein diets and vegetarian diets tend to be low in zinc.

Zinc is in most multivitamin and mineral supplements. These supplements may
contain zinc gluconate, zinc sulfate, or zinc acetate. It is not clear whether
one form is better than the others.

Zinc is also found in some over-the-counter medicines, such as cold lozenges,
nasal sprays, and nasal gels.

## Side Effects

Symptoms of zinc deficiency include:

    * Frequent infections
    * Hypogonadism in males
    * Loss of hair
    * Poor appetite
    * Problems with the sense of taste
    * Problems with the sense of smell
    * Skin sores
    * Slow growth
    * Trouble seeing in the dark
    * Wounds that take a long time to heal 

Zinc supplements taken in large amounts may cause diarrhea, abdominal cramps,
and vomiting. These symptoms most often appear within 3 to 10 hours of
swallowing the supplements. The symptoms go away within a short period of time
after stopping the supplements. An excess intake of zinc can lead to copper or
iron deficiency.

People who use nasal sprays and gels that contain zinc may have side effects,
such as losing their sense of smell.

## Recommendations

REFERENCE INTAKES

Dosages for zinc, as well as other nutrients, are provided in the Dietary
Reference Intakes (DRIs) developed by the Food and Nutrition Board at the
Institute of Medicine. DRI is a term for a set of reference intakes that are
used to plan and assess the nutrient intakes of healthy people. These values,
which vary by age and gender, include:

    * Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) -- The average daily level of intake that is enough to meet the nutrient needs of nearly all (97% to 98%) healthy people. An RDA is an intake level based on scientific research evidence.
    * Adequate Intake (AI) -- This level is established when there is not enough scientific research evidence to develop an RDA. It is set at a level that is thought to ensure enough nutrition.

Dietary Reference Intakes for zinc:Â

Infants (AI)

    * 0 to 6 months: 2 mg/day

Children and infants (RDA)

    * 7 to 12 months: 3 mg/day
    * 1 to 3 years: 3 mg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 5 mg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 8 mg/day 

Adolescents and Adults (RDA)

    * Males, age 14 and over: 11 mg/day
    * Females, age 14 to 18: 9 mg/day
    * Females, age 19 and over: 8 mg/day
    * Pregnant females, age 19 and over: 11 mg/day (14 to 18 years: 12 mg/day)
    * Lactating females, age 19 and over: 12 mg/day (14 to 18 years: 13 mg/day)

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins and minerals
is to eat a balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

Singh M, Das RR. Zinc for the common cold. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_.
2013;(6):CD001364. PMID: 23775705 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23775705.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

