Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002419.htm    
                                Description: Copper is an essential trace mineral present in all body tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Copper in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002419.htm

# Copper in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Copper is an essential trace mineral present in all body tissues.

## Function

Copper works with iron to help the body form red blood cells. It also helps
keep the blood vessels, nerves, immune system, and bones healthy. Copper also
aids in iron absorption.

## Food Sources

Oysters and other shellfish, whole grains, beans, nuts, potatoes, and organ
meats (kidneys, liver) are good sources of copper. Dark leafy greens, dried
fruits such as prunes, cocoa, black pepper, and yeast are also sources of
copper in the diet.

## Side Effects

Normally people have enough copper in the foods they eat. Menkes disease
(kinky hair syndrome) is a very rare disorder of copper metabolism that is
present before birth. It occurs in male infants.

Lack of copper may lead to anemia and osteoporosis.

In large amounts, copper is poisonous. A rare inherited disorder, Wilson
disease, causes deposits of copper in the liver, brain, and other organs. The
increased copper in these tissues leads to hepatitis, kidney problems, brain
disorders, and other problems.

## Recommendations

The Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine recommends the
following dietary intake for copper:

Infants

    * 0 to 6 months: 200 micrograms per day (mcg/day)*
    * 7 to 12 months: 220 mcg/day* 

*AI or Adequate Intake 

Children

    * 1 to 3 years: 340 mcg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 440 mcg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 700 mcg/day 

Adolescents and adults

    * Males and females age 14 to 18 years: 890 mcg/day
    * Males and females age 19 and older: 900 mcg/day
    * Pregnant females: 1,000 mcg/day
    * Lactating females: 1,300 mcg/day 

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods from the food guide plate.

Specific recommendations depend on age, gender, and other factors (such as
pregnancy). Women who are pregnant or producing breast milk (lactating) need
higher amounts. Ask your health care provider which amount is best for you.

## Alternative Names

Diet - copper

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Smith B, Thompson J. Nutrition and growth. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital;
Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

