Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002424.htm    
                                Description: Phosphorus is a mineral that makes up 1% of a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Phosphorus in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002424.htm

# Phosphorus in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Phosphorus is a mineral that makes up 1% of a person's total body weight. It
is the second most abundant mineral in the body. It is present in every cell
of the body. Most of the phosphorus in the body is found in the bones and
teeth.

## Function

The main function of phosphorus is in the formation of bones and teeth.

It plays an important role in how the body uses carbohydrates and fats. It is
also needed for the body to make protein for the growth, maintenance, and
repair of cells and tissues. Phosphorus also helps the body make ATP, a
molecule the body uses to store energy.

Phosphorus works with the B vitamins. It also helps with the following:

    * Kidney function
    * Muscle contractions
    * Normal heartbeat
    * Nerve signaling 

## Food Sources

The main food sources are the protein food groups of meat and milk, as well as
processed foods that contain sodium phosphate. A diet that includes the right
amounts of calcium and protein will also provide enough phosphorus.

Whole-grain breads and cereals contain more phosphorus than cereals and breads
made from refined flour. However, the phosphorus is stored in a form that is
not absorbed by humans.

Fruits and vegetables contain only small amounts of phosphorus.

## Side Effects

Phosphorus is so readily available in the food supply, so deficiency is rare.

Excessively high levels of phosphorus in the blood, although rare, can combine
with calcium to form deposits in soft tissues, such as muscle. High levels of
phosphorus in blood only occur in people with severe kidney disease or severe
dysfunction of their calcium regulation.

## Recommendations

According to Institute of Medicine recommendations, the recommended dietary
intakes of phosphorus are as follows:

    * 0 to 6 months: 100 milligrams per day (mg/day)*
    * 7 to 12 months: 275 mg/day*
    * 1 to 3 years: 460 mg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 500 mg/day
    * 9 to 18 years: 1,250 mg
    * Adults: 700 mg/day 

Pregnant or lactating women:

    * Younger than 18: 1,250 mg/day
    * Older than 18: 700 mg/day 

*AI or Adequate Intake

## Alternative Names

Diet - phosphorus

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Yu ASL. Disorders of magnesium and phosphorus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 119.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

