Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002414.htm    
                                Description: Selenium is an essential trace mineral. This means your body must get this mineral in the food you eat. Small amounts of selenium are good for your health.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Selenium in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002414.htm

# Selenium in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Selenium is an essential trace mineral. This means your body must get this
mineral in the food you eat. Small amounts of selenium are good for your
health.

## Function

Selenium is a trace mineral. Your body only needs it in small amounts.

Selenium helps your body make special proteins, called antioxidant enzymes.
These play a role in preventing cell damage.

Some research suggests that selenium may help with the following:

    * Prevent certain cancers
    * Protect the body from the poisonous effects of heavy metals and other harmful substances

More studies on the benefits of selenium are needed. Currently, taking a
selenium supplement in addition to food sources of selenium is not currently
recommended for these conditions.

## Food Sources

Plant foods, such as vegetables, are the most common food sources of selenium.
How much selenium is in the vegetables you eat depends on how much of the
mineral was in the soil where the plants grew.

Brazil nuts are a very good source of selenium. Fish, shellfish, red meat,
grains, eggs, chicken, liver, and garlic are also good sources. Meats produced
from animals that ate grains or plants found in selenium-rich soil have higher
levels of selenium.

Brewer's yeast, wheat germ, and enriched breads are also good sources of
selenium.

## Side Effects

Lack of selenium is rare in people in the United States. However, deficiency
may occur when a person is fed through a vein (IV line) for long periods of
time.

Keshan disease is caused by a lack of selenium. This leads to an abnormality
of the heart muscle. Keshan disease caused many childhood deaths in China
until the link to selenium was discovered and supplements were given.

Two other diseases have been linked to selenium deficiency:

    * Kashin-Beck disease, which results in joint and bone disease
    * Myxedematous endemic cretinism, which results in intellectual disability

Severe gastrointestinal disorders may also affect the body's ability to absorb
selenium. Such disorders include Crohn disease.

Too much selenium in the blood can cause a condition called selenosis.
Selenosis can cause hair loss, nail problems, nausea, irritability, fatigue,
and mild nerve damage. However, selenium toxicity is rare in the United
States.

## Recommendations

Dosages for selenium, as well as other nutrients, are provided in the Dietary
Reference Intakes (DRIs) developed by the Food and Nutrition Board at the
Institute of Medicine. DRI is a term for a set of reference intakes that are
used to plan and assess the nutrient intakes of healthy people.

How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender. Other
factors, such as pregnancy and illnesses, are also important. Women who are
pregnant or breastfeeding need higher amounts. Ask your health care provider
which amount is best for you. These values include:

    *  **Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA):** The average daily level of intake that is enough to meet the nutrient needs of nearly all (97% to 98%) healthy people. An RDA is an intake level based on scientific research evidence.
    *  **Adequate Intake (AI):** This level is established when there is not enough scientific research evidence to develop an RDA. It is set at a level that is thought to ensure enough nutrition.

Infants (AI)

    * 0 to 6 months: 15 micrograms per day (mcg/day)
    * 7 to 12 months: 20 mcg/day

Children (RDA)

    * Age 1 to 3: 20 mcg/day
    * Age 4 to 8: 30 mcg/day
    * Age 9 to 13: 40 mcg/day

Adolescents and adults (RDA)

    * Males, age 14 and older: 55 mcg/day
    * Females, age 14 and older: 55 mcg/day
    * Pregnant females: 60 mcg/day
    * Lactating females: 70 mcg/day

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

## Images

    * ![Selenium - antioxidant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19304t.jpg)Selenium - antioxidant

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

National Institutes of Health. Dietary Supplement Fact Sheet: Selenium.
ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Selenium-HealthProfessional/. Updated September 26,
2018. Accessed March 31, 2019.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

