Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002418.htm    
                                Description: Chromium is an essential mineral that is not made by the body. It must be obtained from the diet.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chromium in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002418.htm

# Chromium in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chromium is an essential mineral that is not made by the body. It must be
obtained from the diet.

## Function

Chromium is important in the breakdown of fats and carbohydrates. It
stimulates fatty acid and cholesterol synthesis. They are important for brain
function and other body processes. Chromium also aids in insulin action and
glucose breakdown.

## Food Sources

The best source of chromium is brewer's yeast. However, many people do not use
brewer's yeast because it causes bloating (abdominal distention) and nausea.
Meat and whole grain products are relatively good sources. Some fruits,
vegetables, and spices are also relatively good sources.

Other good sources of chromium include the following:

    * Beef
    * Liver
    * Eggs
    * Chicken
    * Oysters
    * Wheat germ
    * Broccoli

## Side Effects

Lack of chromium may be seen as impaired glucose tolerance. It occurs in older
people with type 2 diabetes and in infants with protein-calorie malnutrition.
Taking a chromium supplement may help, but it is not an alternative for other
treatment.

Because of the low absorption and high excretion rates of chromium, toxicity
is not common.

## Recommendations

The Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine recommends the
following dietary intake for chromium:

Infants

    * 0 to 6 months: 0.2 micrograms per day (mcg/day)*
    * 7 to 12 months: 5.5 mcg/day* 

Children

    * 1 to 3 years: 11 mcg/day*
    * 4 to 8 years: 15 mcg/day*
    * Males age 9 to 13 years: 25 mcg/day*
    * Females age 9 to 13 years: 21 mcg/day* 

Adolescents and adults

    * Males age 14 to 50: 35 mcg/day*
    * Males age 51 and over: 30 mcg/day*
    * Females age 14 to 18: 24 mcg/day*
    * Females age 19 to 50: 25 mcg/day*
    * Females age 51 and older: 20 mcg/day*
    * Pregnant females age 19 to 50: 30 mcg/day (age 14 to 18: 29* mcg/day)
    * Lactating females age 19 to 50: 45 mcg/day (age 14 to 18: 44 mcg/day)

AI or Adequate Intake*

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods from the food guide plate.

Specific recommendations depend on age, gender, and other factors (such as
pregnancy). Women who are pregnant or producing breast milk (lactating) need
higher amounts. Ask your health care provider which amount is best for you.

## Alternative Names

Diet - chromium

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

Smith B, Thompson J. Nutrition and growth. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital;
Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Minerals](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Minerals_thumb.jpg)Minerals _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

