Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000042.htm    
                                Description: A strain is when a muscle is stretched too much and tears. It is also called a pulled muscle. A strain is a painful injury. It can be caused by an accident,Â overusing a muscle, or using a muscle inÂ the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Strains

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000042.htm

# Strains

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A strain is when a muscle is stretched too much and tears. It is also called a
pulled muscle. A strain is a painful injury. It can be caused by an accident,Â
overusing a muscle, or using a muscle inÂ the wrong way.

## Causes

A strain may be caused by:

    * Too muchÂ physical activity or effort
    * Improperly warming up before a physical activity
    * Poor flexibility 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a strain can include:

    * Pain and difficulty moving the injured muscle
    * Discolored and bruised skin
    * Swelling

## First Aid

Take the following first aid steps to treat a strain:

    * Apply ice right away to reduce swelling. Wrap the ice in cloth. Do not place ice directly on the skin. Apply ice for 10 to 15 minutes everyÂ 1 hour for the first day and every 3 to 4 hours after that.
    * Use ice for the first 3 days. After 3 days, either heat or ice may be helpful if you still have pain.
    * Rest the pulled muscle for at least a day. If possible, keep the pulled muscle raised above your heart.
    * Try not to use a strained muscle while it is still painful. When the pain starts to go away, you can slowly increase activity by gently stretching the injured muscle.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number, such as 911, if:

    * You are unable to move the muscle.
    * The injury is bleeding. 

Call your health care provider if the pain does not go away after several
weeks.

## Prevention

The following tips may help you reduce your risk of a strain:

    * Warm-up properly before exercise and sports.
    * Keep your muscles strong and flexible.

## Alternative Names

Pulled muscle

## Images

    * ![Muscle strain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19618t.jpg)Muscle strain
    * ![Treatment for leg strain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8845t.jpg)Treatment for leg strain

## References

Biundo JJ. Bursitis, tendinitis, and other periarticular disorders and sports
medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 263.

Wang D, Eliasberg CD, Rodeo SA. Physiology and pathophysiology of
musculoskeletal tissues. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR. eds. _DeLee, Drez, &
Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 1.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sprains and
Strains](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SprainsandStrains_thumb.jpg)Sprains
and Strains _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

