Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000574.htm    
                                Description: Ligaments are strong, flexible tissues that attach your bones to one another. They keep your joints stable and help them move in the right ways.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ankle sprain - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000574.htm

# Ankle sprain - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ligaments are strong, flexible tissues that attach your bones to one another.
They keep your joints stable and help them move in the right ways.

An ankle sprain occurs when the ligaments in your ankle are stretched or torn.

## More about Your Injury

There are 3 grades of ankle sprains:

    * Grade I sprains: Your ligaments are stretched. It is a mild injury that can improve with some light stretching.
    * Grade II sprains: Your ligaments are partially torn. You may need to wear a splint or a cast.
    * Grade III sprains: Your ligaments are fully torn. You may need surgery for this severe injury. 

The last 2 kinds of sprains are often associated with tearing of small blood
vessels. This allows blood to leak into tissues and cause black and blue color
in the area. The blood may not appear for several days. Most of the time, it
is absorbed from the tissues within 2 weeks.

If your sprain is more severe:

    * You may feel strong pain and have a lot of swelling.
    * You may not be able to walk, or walking may be painful. 

Some ankle sprains may become chronic (long-lasting). If this happens to you,
your ankle may continue to be:

    * Painful and swollen
    * Weak or giving way easily 

## What to Expect

Your health care provider may order an x-ray to look for a bone fracture, or
an MRI scan to look for an injury to the ligament.

To help your ankle heal, your provider may treat you with a brace, a cast, or
a splint, and may give you crutches to walk on. You may be asked to place only
part or none of your weight on the bad ankle. You will also need to do
physical therapy or exercises to help you recover from the injury.

## Self-care

You can decrease swelling by:

    * Resting and not putting weight on your foot
    * Elevating your foot on a pillow at or above the level of your heart 

Apply ice every hour while you are awake, 20 minutes at a time and covered by
a towel or bag, for the first 24 hours after the injury. After the first 24
hours, apply ice 20 minutes 3 to 4 times per day. DO NOT apply ice directly to
your skin. You should wait at least 30 minutes in between ice applications.

Pain medicines, such as ibuprofen or naproxen, may help to ease pain and
swelling. You can buy these medicines without a prescription.

    * DO NOT use these drugs for the first 24 hours after your injury. They may increase the risk of bleeding.
    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or more than your provider advises you to take. Carefully read the warnings on the label before taking any medicine. 

During the first 24 hours after your injury you may take acetaminophen
(Tylenol and others) if your provider tells you it is safe to do so. People
with liver disease should not take this medicine.

## Getting Active

The pain and swelling of an ankle sprain most often gets better within 48
hours. After that, you can begin to put weight back on your injured foot.

    * Put only as much weight on your foot as is comfortable at first. Slowly work your way up to your full weight.
    * If your ankle begins to hurt, stop and rest. 

Your provider will give you exercises to strengthen your foot and ankle. Doing
these exercises can help prevent future sprains and chronic ankle pain.

For less severe sprains, you may be able to go back to your normal activities
after a few days. For more severe sprains, it may take several weeks.

Talk to your provider before returning to more intense sports or work
activities.

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider if you notice any of the following:

    * You cannot walk, or walking is very painful.
    * The pain does not get better after ice, rest, and pain medicine.
    * Your ankle does not feel any better after 5 to 7 days.
    * Your ankle continues to feel weak or gives away easily.
    * Your ankle is increasingly discolored (red or black and blue), or it becomes numb or tingly. 

## Alternative Names

Lateral ankle sprain - aftercare; Medial ankle sprain - aftercare; Medial
ankle injury - aftercare; Ankle syndesmosis sprain - aftercare; Syndesmosis
injury - aftercare; ATFL injury - aftercare; CFL injury - aftercare

## References

Farr BK, Nguyen D, Stephenson K, Rokgers T, Stevens FR, Jasko JJ. Ankle
sprains. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC, eds. _Clinical Orthopaedic
Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 39.

Krabak BJ. Ankle sprain. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 83.

Molloy A, Selvan D. Ligamentous injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 116.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Ankle Injuries and Disorders
    * Sprains and Strains

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

