Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000551.htm    
                                Description: A strain is when a muscle becomes overstretched and tears. This painful injury is also called a &quot;pulled muscle.&quot;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hamstring strain - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000551.htm

# Hamstring strain - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A strain is when a muscle becomes overstretched and tears. This painful injury
is also called a "pulled muscle."

If you have strained your hamstring, you have pulled one or more of the
muscles on the back of your upper leg (thigh).

## More About a Hamstring Strain

There are 3 levels of hamstring strains:

    * Grade 1 -- mild muscle strain or pull
    * Grade 2 -- partial muscle tear
    * Grade 3 -- complete muscle tear 

Recovery time depends on the grade of the injury. A minor grade 1 injury can
heal in a few days, while a grade 3 injury could take much longer to heal or
need surgery.

## What to Expect

You can expect swelling, tenderness, and pain after a hamstring strain.
Walking may be painful.

To help your hamstring muscle heal, you may need:

    * Crutches if you cannot put any weight on your leg
    * A special bandage wrapped around your thigh (compression bandage) 

Symptoms, such as pain and soreness, may last:

    * Two to five days for a grade 1 injury
    * Up to a few weeks or a month for grade 2 or 3 injuries 

If the injury is very close to the buttock or knee or there is a lot of
bruising:

    * It may mean the hamstring was pulled off the bone.
    * You will likely be referred to a sports medicine or bone (orthopedic) doctor.
    * You may need surgery. 

## Symptom Relief

Follow these steps for the first few days or weeks after your injury:

    * Rest. Stop any physical activity that causes pain. Keep your leg as still as possible. You may need crutches when you have to move.
    * Ice. Put ice on your hamstring for about 20 minutes, 2 to 3 times a day. DO NOT apply ice directly to your skin.
    * Compression. A compression bandage or wrap can reduce swelling and ease pain.
    * Elevation. When sitting, keep your leg raised slightly to reduce swelling. 

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your health care provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Getting Active Again

When your pain has decreased enough, you can begin light stretching and light
physical activity. Make sure your provider knows.

Slowly increase your physical activity, such as walking. Follow the exercises
your provider gave you. As your hamstring heals and gets stronger, you can add
more stretches and exercises.

Take care not to push yourself too hard or too fast. A hamstring strain can
recur, or your hamstring may tear.

Talk to your provider before returning to work or any physical activity.
Returning to normal activity too early can cause reinjury.

## Follow-up

Follow up with your provider 1 to 2 weeks after your injury. Based on your
injury, your provider may want to see you more than once during the healing
process.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have sudden numbness or tingling.
    * You notice a sudden increase in pain or swelling.
    * Your injury does not seem to be healing as expected.

## Alternative Names

Pulled hamstring muscle; Sprain - hamstring

## References

Bhatti OM, Weinman BM, Hoch AZ. Hamstring strain. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 68.

Guanche CA. Hamstring injuries. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee &
Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 88.

Reider B, Davies GJ, Provencher MT. Muscle strains about the hip and thigh.
In: Reider B, Davies GJ, Provencher MT, eds. _Orthopaedic Rehabilitation of
the Athlete_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 24.

Switzer JA, Bovard RS, Quinn RH. Wilderness orthopedics. In: Auerbach PS,
Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Sprains and Strains

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

