Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000682.htm    
                                Description: The hip flexors are a group of muscles toward the front of the hip. They help you move, or flex, your leg and knee up towards your body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip flexor strain - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000682.htm

# Hip flexor strain - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The hip flexors are a group of muscles toward the front of the hip. They help
you move, or flex, your leg and knee up towards your body.

A hip flexor strain occurs when one or more of the hip flexor muscles becomes
stretched or torn.

## More About Your Injury

Hip flexors allow you to flex your hip and bend your knee. Sudden movements,
such as sprinting, kicking, and changing direction while running or moving,
can stretch and tear the hip flexors.

Runners, people who do martial arts, and football, soccer, and hockey players
are more likely to have this type of injury.

Other factors that can lead to hip flexor strain include:

    * Weak muscles
    * Not warming up
    * Stiff muscles
    * Trauma or falls 

## What to Expect

You will feel a hip flexor strain in the front area where your thigh meets
your hip. Depending on how bad the strain is, you may notice:

    * Mild pain and pulling in the front of the hip.
    * Cramping and sharp pain. It may be hard to walk without limping.
    * Difficulty getting out of a chair or coming up from a squat.
    * Severe pain, spasms, bruising, and swelling. The top of the thigh muscle may budge. It will be hard to walk. These are signs of a complete tear, which is less common. You may have some bruising down the front of your thigh a few days after injury. 

You may need to use crutches for a severe strain.

## Symptom Relief

Follow these steps for the first few days or weeks after your injury:

    * Rest. Stop any activity that causes pain.
    * Ice the area for 20 minutes every 3 to 4 hours for 2 to 3 days. DO NOT apply ice directly to your skin. Wrap the ice in a clean cloth first.

You can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce
pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps with pain, but not with
swelling. You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your doctor before using pain medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your doctor.

## Activity

Your doctor may recommend that as you rest the area, you do exercises that
don't strain the hip flexors, such as swimming.

For a severe strain, you may want to see a physical therapist (PT). The PT
will work with you to:

    * Stretch and strengthen your hip flexor muscles and other muscles that surround and support that area.
    * Guide you in increasing your activity level so you can return to your activities. 

## Self-care at Home

Follow your provider's recommendations for rest, ice, and pain relief
medicines. If you are seeing a PT, be sure to do the exercises as directed.
Following a care plan will help your muscles heal and likely prevent future
injury.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you do not feel better in a few weeks with treatment.

## Alternative Names

Pulled hip flexor - aftercare; Hip flexor injury - aftercare; Hip flexor tear
- aftercare; Iliopsoas strain - aftercare; Strained iliopsoas muscle -
aftercare; Torn iliopsoas muscle - aftercare; Psoas strain - aftercare

## References

Hansen PA, Henrie AM, Deimel GW, Willick SE. Musculoskeletal disorders of the
lower limb. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016: chap 36.

McMillan S, Busconi B, Montano M. Hip and thigh contusions and strains. In:
Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 87.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hip Injuries and Disorders
    * Sprains and Strains

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

