Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000568.htm    
                                Description: A sprain is an injury to the ligaments around a joint. Ligaments are strong, flexible fibers that hold bones together.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wrist sprain - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000568.htm

# Wrist sprain - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sprain is an injury to the ligaments around a joint. Ligaments are strong,
flexible fibers that hold bones together.

When you sprain your wrist, you have pulled or torn one or more of the
ligaments in your wrist joint. This can happen from landing on your hand wrong
when you fall.

See a health care provider as soon as possible after your injury.

## More About Your Injury

Wrist sprains can be mild to severe. They are ranked by how severely the
ligament is pulled or torn away from the bone.

    * Grade 1 -- Ligaments are stretched too far, but not torn. This is a mild injury.
    * Grade 2 -- Ligaments are partially torn. This is a moderate injury and may require splinting or casting to stabilize the joint.
    * Grade 3 -- Ligaments are completely torn. This is a severe injury and usually requires medical or surgical care. 

Chronic wrist sprains from poorly treated ligament injuries in the past can
lead to weakening of the bones and ligaments in the wrist. If not treated,
this can lead to arthritis.

## What to Expect

Symptoms such as pain, swelling, bruising and loss of strength or stability
are common with mild (grade 1) to moderate (grade 2) wrist sprains.

With mild injuries, stiffness is normal once the ligament begins to heal. This
can improve with light stretching.

Severe (grade 3) wrist sprains may need to be looked at by a hand surgeon.
X-rays or an MRI of the wrist may need to be done. More severe injuries may
require surgery.

Chronic sprains should be treated with splinting, pain medicine, and anti-
inflammatory medicine. Chronic sprains may need steroid injections and
possibly surgery.

## Symptom Relief

Follow any specific instructions for symptom relief. You may be advised that
for the first few days or weeks after your injury:

    * Rest. Stop any activity that causes pain. You may need a splint. You can find wrist splints at your local drugstore.
    * Ice your wrist for about 20 minutes, 2 to 3 times a day. To prevent skin injury, wrap the ice pack in a clean cloth before applying. 

Make sure to rest your wrist as much as you can. Use a compression wrap or
splint to keep the wrist from moving and to keep the swelling down.

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider.
    * DO NOT give aspirin to children. 

## Activity

To build strength once your wrist starts to feel better, try the ball drill.

    * With your palm up, place a rubber ball in your hand and grab it with your fingers.
    * Keep your hand and wrist still while you gently squeeze the ball.
    * Squeeze for about 30 seconds, then release.
    * Repeat this 20 times, twice a day. 

To increase flexibility and movement:

    * Warm up your wrist by using a heating pad or warm washcloth for about 10 minutes.
    * Once your wrist is warm, hold your hand out flat and grab your fingers with the uninjured hand. Gently bring the fingers back to bend the wrist. Stop just before it begins to feel uncomfortable. Hold the stretch for 30 seconds.
    * Take a minute to let your wrist relax. Repeat the stretch 5 times.
    * Bend your wrist in the opposite direction, stretching downward and holding for 30 seconds. Relax your wrist for a minute, and repeat this stretch 5 times, as well. 

If you feel increased discomfort in your wrist after these exercises, ice the
wrist for 20 minutes.

Do the exercises twice a day.

## Follow-up

Follow up with your provider 1 to 2 weeks after your injury. Based on the
severity of your injury, your provider may want to see you more than once.

For chronic wrist sprains, talk to your provider about what activity may be
causing you to re-injure your wrist and what you can do to prevent further
injury.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if you have:

    * Sudden numbness or tingling
    * A sudden increase in pain or swelling
    * Sudden bruising or locking in the wrist
    * An injury that does not seem to be healing as expected 

## Alternative Names

Scapholunate ligament sprain - aftercare

## References

Gaston RG, Robinson EP, Lourie GM. Hand and wrist diagnosis and decision
making. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR. eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 71.

Williams DT, Kim HT. Wrist and forearm. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 44.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Sprains and Strains
    * Wrist Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

