Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000652.htm    
                                Description: There are many bones and ligaments in your foot. A ligament is a strong flexible tissue that holds bones together.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Foot sprain - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000652.htm

# Foot sprain - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There are many bones and ligaments in your foot. A ligament is a strong
flexible tissue that holds bones together.

When the foot lands awkwardly, some ligaments can stretch and tear. This is
called a sprain.

When the injury occurs to the middle part of the foot, this is called a mid-
foot sprain.

## More about Your Injury

Most foot sprains happen due to sports or activities in which your body twists
and pivots but your feet stay in place. Some of these sports include football,
snowboarding, and dance.

There are three levels of foot sprains.

    * Grade I, minor. You have small tears in the ligaments.
    * Grade II, moderate. You have large tears in the ligaments.
    * Grade III, severe. The ligaments are completely disrupted or detached from the bone.

## What to Expect

Symptoms of a foot sprain include:

    * Pain and tenderness near the arch of the foot. This can be felt on the bottom, top, or sides of the foot.
    * Bruising and swelling of the foot
    * Pain when walking or during activity
    * Not being able to put weight on your foot. This most often occurs with more severe injuries. 

Your health care provider may take a picture of your foot, called an x-ray, to
see how severe the injury is.

If it is painful to put weight on your foot, your provider may give you a
splint or crutches to use while your foot heals.

Most minor-to-moderate injuries will heal within 2 to 4 weeks. More severe
injuries, such as injuries that need a cast or splint, will need a longer time
to heal, up to 6 to 8 weeks. The most serious injuries will need surgery to
reduce the bone and allow the ligaments to heal. The healing process can be 6
to 8 months.

## Symptom Relief

Follow these steps for the first few days or weeks after your injury:

    * Rest. Stop any physical activity that causes pain, and keep your foot still when possible.
    * Ice your foot for 20 minutes 2 to 3 times a day. DO NOT apply ice directly to your skin.
    * Keep your foot raised to help keep swelling down.
    * Take pain medicine if you need it. 

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Activity

You can begin light activity once the pain has decreased and the swelling has
gone down. Slowly increase the amount of walking or activity each day.

There may be some soreness and stiffness when you walk. This will go away once
the muscles and ligaments in your foot begin to stretch and strengthen.

Your provider or physical therapist can give you exercises to help strengthen
the muscles and ligaments in your foot. These exercises can also help prevent
future injury.

Tips:

    * During activity, you should wear a stable and protective shoe. A higher-top shoe can protect your ankle while a stiffer sole shoe can protect your foot. Walking bare foot or in flip flops can make your sprain worse.
    * If you feel any sharp pain, stop the activity.
    * Ice your foot after activity if you have any discomfort.
    * Wear a boot if your provider suggests it. This can protect your foot and allow your ligaments to heal better.
    * Talk to your provider before returning to any high impact activity or sport. 

## Follow-up

You may not need to see your provider again if your injury is healing as
expected. You may need additional follow up visits if the injury is more
severe.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the health care provider if:

    * You have sudden numbness or tingling.
    * You have sudden increase in pain or swelling.
    * The injury does not seem to be healing as expected.

## Alternative Names

Mid-foot sprain

## References

Molloy A, Selvan D. Ligamentous injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 116.

Rose NGW, Green TJ. Ankle and foot. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Foot Injuries and Disorders
    * Sprains and Strains

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

