Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000041.htm    
                                Description: A sprain is an injury to the ligaments around a joint. Ligaments are strong, flexible fibers that hold bones together. When a ligament is stretched too far or tears, the joint will become painful and swell.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sprains

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000041.htm

# Sprains

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sprain is an injury to the ligaments around a joint. Ligaments are strong,
flexible fibers that hold bones together. When a ligament is stretched too far
or tears, the joint will become painful and swell.

## Causes

Sprains are caused when a joint is forced to move into an unnatural position.
For example, "twisting" one's ankle causes a sprain to the ligaments around
the ankle.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a sprain include:

    * Joint pain or muscle pain
    * Swelling
    * Joint stiffness
    * Discoloration of the skin, especially bruising

## First Aid

First aid steps include:

    * Apply ice right away to reduce swelling. Wrap the ice in cloth. Do not place ice directly on the skin.
    * Wrap a bandage around the affected area to limit movement. Wrap firmly, but not tightly. Use a splint if needed.
    * Keep the swollen joint raised above your heart, even while sleeping.
    * Rest the affected joint for several days.
    * Avoid putting stress on the joint because it can make the injury worse. A sling for the arm, or crutches or a brace for the leg can protect the injury. 

Aspirin, ibuprofen, or other pain relievers can help. DO NOT give aspirin to
children.

Keep pressure off the injured area until the pain goes away. Most of the time,
a mild sprain will heal in 7 to 10 days. It may take several weeks for pain to
go away after a bad sprain. Your health care provider may recommend crutches.
Physical therapy can help you regain motion and strength of the injured area.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the hospital right away or call 911 if:

    * You think you have a broken bone.
    * The joint appears out of position.
    * You have a serious injury or severe pain.
    * You hear a popping sound and have immediate problems using the joint. 

Call your provider if:

    * Swelling does not start to go away within 2 days.
    * You have symptoms of infection, including red, warm, painful skin or a fever over 100Â°F (38Â°C).
    * The pain does not go away after several weeks.

## Prevention

The following steps may lower your risk of a sprain:

    * Wear protective footwear during activities that place stress on your ankle and other joints.
    * Make sure that shoes fit your feet properly.
    * Avoid high-heeled shoes.
    * Always warm-up and stretchÂ before doingÂ exercise and sports.
    * Avoid sports and activities for which you have not trained. 

## Alternative Names

Joint sprain

## Images

    * ![Early treatment of injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19396t.jpg)Early treatment of injury
    * ![Ankle sprain - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19625t.jpg)Ankle sprain - Series

## References

Biundo JJ. Bursitis, tendinitis, and other periarticular disorders and sports
medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 263.

Wang D, Eliasberg CD, Rodeo SA. Physiology and pathophysiology of
musculoskeletal tissues. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR. eds. _DeLee, Drez, &
Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 1.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sprains and
Strains](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SprainsandStrains_thumb.jpg)Sprains
and Strains _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

