Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002970.htm    
                                Description: Tendon repair is surgery to repair damaged or torn tendons.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tendon repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002970.htm

# Tendon repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tendon repair is surgery to repair damaged or torn tendons.

## Description

Tendon repairs can often be done in an outpatient setting. Hospital stays, if
any, are short.

Tendon repair can be performed using:

    * Local anesthesia (immediate area of the surgery is pain-free)
    * Regional anesthesia (local and surrounding areas are pain-free)
    * General anesthesia (asleep and pain-free)

The surgeon makes a cut on the skin over the injured tendon. The damaged or
torn ends of the tendon are sewn together.

If the tendon has been severely injured, a tendon graft may be needed.

    * In this case, a piece of tendon from another part of the body or an artificial tendon is used.
    * If needed, tendons are reattached to the surrounding tissue.
    * The surgeon examines the area to see if there are any injuries to nerves and blood vessels.
    * When the repair is complete, the wound is closed and bandaged.

If the tendon damage is too severe, the repair and reconstruction may have to
be done at different times. The surgeon will perform one surgery to repair
part of the injury. Another surgery will be done at a later time to finish
repairing the tendon.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The goal of tendon repair is to bring back normal function of joints or
surrounding tissues a tendon injury or tear.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of this procedure include:

    * Scar tissue that prevents smooth movements
    * Pain that does not go away
    * Partial loss of function in the involved joint
    * Stiffness of the joint
    * The tendon tears again

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon what medicines you are taking. These include medicines,
herbs, and supplements you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * Prepare your home for when you leave the hospital.
    * If you are a smoker or use tobacco, you need to stop. You may not heal as well if you smoke or use tobacco. Ask a health care provider for help quitting.
    * Follow instructions on stopping blood thinners. These include warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or NSAIDs such as aspirin. These might cause increased bleeding during surgery.
    * Talk with your doctor if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 to 2 glasses a day.
    * Ask your surgeon which medicines you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * Let your surgeon know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illnesses you may have.Â 

On the day of the surgery:

    * Follow instructions about not drinking or eating anything before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines you were told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

Healing may take 6 to 12 weeks. During that time:

    * The injured part may need to be kept in a splint or cast. Later, a brace that allows movement may be used.
    * You'll be taught exercises to help the tendon heal and limit scar tissue.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most tendon repairs are successful with proper andÂ continued physical
therapy.

## Alternative Names

Repair of tendon

## Images

    * ![Tendons and muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8956t.jpg)Tendons and muscles

## References

Cannon DL. Flexor and extensor tendon injuries. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 66.

Irwin TA. Tendon injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 117.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sprains and
Strains](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SprainsandStrains_thumb.jpg)Sprains
and Strains _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

