Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000679.htm    
                                Description: A sprain is an injury to the ligaments around a joint. A ligament is a band of tissue that connects bone to bone. The ligaments in your elbow help connect the bones of your upper and lower arm around your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Elbow sprain - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000679.htm

# Elbow sprain - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sprain is an injury to the ligaments around a joint. A ligament is a band of
tissue that connects bone to bone. The ligaments in your elbow help connect
the bones of your upper and lower arm around your elbow joint. When you sprain
your elbow, you have pulled or torn one or more of the ligaments in your elbow
joint.

## More About Your Injury

An elbow sprain can occur when your arm is quickly bent or twisted in an
unnatural position. It can also happen when the ligaments are overloaded
during regular movement. Elbow sprains can happen when:

    * You fall with your arm stretched out, such as when playing sports
    * Your elbow is hit very hard, such as during a car accident 
    * When you are doing sports and overusing your elbow

## What to Expect

You may notice:

    * Elbow pain and swelling
    * Bruising, redness, or warmth around your elbow
    * Pain when you move your elbow 

Tell your doctor if you heard a "pop" when you injured your elbow. This could
be a sign that the ligament was torn.

After examining your elbow, your doctor may order an x-ray to see if there are
any breaks (fractures) to the bones in your elbow. You may also have an MRI of
the elbow. The MRI pictures will show whether tissues around your elbow have
been stretched or torn.

If you have an elbow sprain, you may need:

    * A sling to keep your arm and elbow from moving
    * A cast or splint if you have severe sprain 
    * Surgery to repair torn ligaments

## Self-care at Home

Your health care provider will likely instruct you to follow RICE to help
reduce pain and swelling:

    *  **Rest** your elbow. Avoid lifting anything with your arm and elbow. Don't move the elbow unless you're instructed to do so.
    *  **Ice** your elbow for 15 to 20 minutes at a time, 3 to 4 times a day. Wrap the ice in cloth. DO NOT place ice directly on the skin. Cold from the ice can damage your skin.
    *  **Compress** the area by wrapping it with an elastic bandage or compression wrap.
    *  **Elevate** your elbow by raising it above the level of your heart. You can prop it up with pillows. 

You can take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to
reduce pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps with pain, but not
swelling. You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney or liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Activity

You may need to wear a sling, splint, or cast for about 2 to 3 weeks while
your elbow heals. Depending on how badly it is sprained, you may need to work
with a physical therapist who will show you stretching and strengthening
exercises.

Most people recover completely from a simple elbow sprain in about 4 weeks.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

    * You have increased swelling or pain
    * Self-care does not seem to help 
    * You have instability in your elbow and you feel that it is slipping out of place

## Alternative Names

Elbow injury - aftercare; Sprained elbow - aftercare; Elbow pain - sprain

## References

Stanley D. The elbow. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS,
Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 83.

Wolf JM. Elbow tendinopathies and bursitis. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds.
_DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 61.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Elbow Injuries and Disorders
    * Sprains and Strains

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

