Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000686.htm    
                                Description: Staph (pronounced staff) is short for Staphylococcus. Staph is a type of germ (bacteria) that can cause infections almost anywhere in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Staph infections - self-care at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000686.htm

# Staph infections - self-care at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Staph (pronounced staff) is short for Staphylococcus. Staph is a type of germ
(bacteria) that can cause infections almost anywhere in the body.

One type of staph germ, called methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_
(MRSA), is harder to treat. This is because MRSA is not killed by certain
medicines (antibiotics) used to treat other staph germs.

## How Does Staph Spread?

Many healthy people normally have staph on their skin, in their noses, or
other body areas. Most of the time, the germ does not cause an infection or
symptoms. This is called being colonized with staph. These persons are known
as carriers. They can spread staph to others. Some people colonized by staph
develop an actual staph infection that makes them sick.

Most staph germs are spread by skin-to-skin contact. They can also be spread
when you touch something that has the staph germ on it, such as clothing or a
towel. Staph germs can then enter a break in the skin, such as cuts,
scratches, or pimples. Usually the infection is minor and stays in the skin.
But the infection can spread deeper and affect the blood, bones, or joints.
Organs such as the lungs, heart, or brain can also be affected. Serious cases
can be life-threatening.

## What are the Risk Factors for Staph Infection?

You are more likely to get a staph infection if you:

    * Have an open cut or sore
    * Inject illegal drugs
    * Have a medical tube such as urinary catheter or feeding tube
    * Have a medical device inside your body such as an artificial joint
    * Have a weakened immune system or ongoing (chronic) illness
    * Live with or have close contact with a person who has staph
    * Play contact sports or share athletic equipment
    * Share items such as towels, razors, or cosmetics with others
    * Recently stayed in a hospital or long-term care facility 

## How Do You Know If You Have a Staph Infection?

Symptoms depend on where the infection is located. For example, with a skin
infection you may have a boil or a painful rash called impetigo. With a
serious infection, such as toxic shock syndrome, you may have a high fever,
nausea and vomiting, and a sunburn-like rash.

The only way to know for sure if you have a staph infection is by seeing a
health care provider.

    * A cotton swab is used to collect a sample from an open skin rash or skin sore.
    * A blood, urine, or sputum sample may also be collected.
    * The sample is sent to a lab to test for staph. If staph is found, it will be tested to see which antibiotic should be used to treat your infection. 

## Treatment

If test results show you have a staph infection, treatment may include:

    * Taking antibiotics
    * Cleaning and draining the wound
    * Surgery to remove an infected device

## Preventing Staph Infection

Follow these steps to avoid a staph infection and prevent it from spreading.

    * Keep your hands clean by washing them thoroughly with soap and water. Or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
    * Keep cuts and scrapes clean and covered with bandages until they heal.
    * Avoid contact with other people's wounds or bandages.
    * Do not share personal items such as towels, clothing, or cosmetics. 

Simple steps for athletes include:

    * Cover wounds with a clean bandage. Do not touch other people's bandages.
    * Wash your hands well before and after playing sports.
    * Shower right after exercising. Do not share soap, razors, or towels.
    * If you share sports equipment, clean it first with antiseptic solution or wipes. Use clothing or a towel between your skin and the equipment.
    * Do not use a common whirlpool or sauna if another person with an open sore used it. Always use clothing or a towel as a barrier.
    * Do not share splints, bandages, or braces.
    * Check that shared shower facilities are clean. If they are not clean, shower at home. 

## Alternative Names

Staphylococcus infections - self-care at home; Methicillin-resistant
staphylococcus aureus infections - self-care at home; MRSA infections - self-
care at home

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Staph infections can kill.
www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/staph/index.html. Updated March 22, 2019. Accessed May
23, 2019.

Chambers HF. Staphylococcal infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 288.

Rupp ME, Fey PD. Staphylococcus epidermidis and other coagulase-negative.
Staphylococci. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 197.

## Review Date 5/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Staphylococcal Infections

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

