Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000988.htm    
                                Description: Tracheitis is a bacterial infection of the windpipe (trachea).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tracheitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000988.htm

# Tracheitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tracheitis is a bacterial infection of the windpipe (trachea).

## Causes

Bacterial tracheitis is most often caused by the bacteria _Staphylococcus
aureus._ It often follows a viral upper respiratory infection. It affects
mostly young children. This may be due to their tracheas being smaller and
more easily blocked by swelling.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Deep cough (similar to that caused by croup)
    * Difficulty breathing
    * High fever
    * High-pitched breathing sound (stridor) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and listen to the
child's lungs. The muscles between the ribs may pull in as the child tries to
breathe. This is called intercostal retractions.

Tests that may be done to diagnose this condition include:

    * Blood oxygen level
    * Nasopharyngeal culture to look for bacteria
    * Tracheal culture to look for bacteria
    * X-ray of the trachea
    * Tracheoscopy

## Treatment

The child often needs to have a tube placed into the airways to help with
breathing. This is called an endotracheal tube. Bacterial debris often needs
to be removed from the trachea at that time.

The child will receive antibiotics through a vein. The health care team will
closely monitor the child's breathing and use oxygen, if needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With prompt treatment, the child should recover.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Airway obstruction (can lead to death)
    * Toxic shock syndrome if the condition was caused by the bacteria staphylococcus

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tracheitis is an emergency medical condition. Go to the emergency room right
away if your child has had a recent upper respiratory infection and suddenly
has a high fever, a cough that gets worse, or trouble breathing.

## Alternative Names

Bacterial tracheitis; Acute bacterial tracheitis

## References

Bower J, McBride JT. Croup in children (acute laryngotracheobronchitis). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 61.

Meyer A. Pediatric infectious disease. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 197.

Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and
infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.

Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper respiratory obstruction (croup,
epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Staphylococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StaphylococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Staphylococcal
Infections _Read more_

![Tracheal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TrachealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tracheal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

