

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Meningitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Chapter 8: Identification and Characterization of _Streptococcus pneumoniae_

Minus

Related Pages

Printer friendly version Cdc-pdf[14 pages]

_S. pneumoniae_ may occur intracellularly or extracellularly as gram-positive
lanceolate diplococci, but can also occur as single cocci or in short chains
of cocci. _S. pneumoniae_ is a fastidious bacterium, growing best at 35-37°C
with ~5% CO2 (or in a candle-jar). It is usually cultured on media that
contain blood, but can also grow on a chocolate agar plate (CAP). On a blood
agar plate (BAP), colonies of _S. pneumoniae_ appear as small, grey, moist
(sometimes mucoidal), colonies and characteristically produce a zone of alpha-
hemolysis (green) (Figure 1). The alpha-hemolytic property differentiates this
organism from many species, but not from the commensal alpha-hemolytic
(viridans) streptococci. Differentiating pneumococci from viridans
streptococci is difficult as young pneumococcal colonies appear raised,
similar to viridans streptococci. However, once the pneumococcal culture ages
24-48 hours, the colonies become flattened, and the central portion becomes
depressed, which does not occur with viridans streptococci (Figure 2). A
microscope (30-50X) or a 3X hand lens can also be a useful tool in
differentiating pneumococci from viridans streptococci. Prior to
identification and characterization testing procedures, isolates should always
be inspected for purity of growth and a single colony should be re-streaked,
when necessary, to obtain a pure culture. For the following identification and
characterization procedures, it is essential to test alpha-hemolytic colonies
that are less than a day old, typically grown overnight at 35-37°C with ~5%
CO2 (or in a candle-jar).

The following specialized tests are used to identify colonies on a BAP that
resemble pneumococci (Figure 3). _S. pneumoniae_ can be identified using Gram
stain, catalase, and optochin tests simultaneously, with bile solubility as a
confirmatory test. If these tests indicate that the isolate is _S. pneumoniae_
, serological tests to identify the serotype can be performed. This sequence
of testing is an efficient way to save costly serotyping reagents and time.
Additional methods for identification and characterization of _S. pneumoniae_
using molecular tools are described in Chapter 10: PCR Methods and Chapter 12:
Molecular Methods. See additional protocols used for streptococcal species
identification and updates to existing methods.

Biosafety Level 2 (BSL-2) practices are required for work involving isolates
of _S. pneumoniae_ , as this organism presents a potential hazard to
laboratory personnel and the surrounding working environment. Please refer to
Chapter 4: Biosafety in order to follow the guidelines that have been
established for laboratorians working in BSL-2 facilities as many of the tests
described in this chapter require opening plates with live cultures and are
often performed outside of a biosafety cabinet (BSC).

![Figure 1 is a picture showing S. pneumoniae colonies with a surrounding
green zone of alpha-hemolysis on a blood agar plate \(BAP\).](/meningitis/lab-
manual/images/chapt8-figure01.gif)

Figure 1. _S. pneumoniae_ colonies with a surrounding green zone of alpha-
hemolysis (black arrow) on a BAP

![Figure 2 is a picture showing S. pneumoniae colonies have a flattened and
depressed center after 24-48 hours of growth on a blood agar plate \(BAP\),
whereas the viridans streptococci retain a raised center.](/meningitis/lab-
manual/images/chapt8-figure02.gif)

Figure 2. _S. pneumoniae_ colonies have a flattened and depressed center after
24-48 hours of growth on a BAP, whereas the viridans streptococci retain a
raised center

![Figure 3 is flow chart for identification and characterization of a S.
pneumoniae isolate.](/meningitis/lab-manual/images/chapt8-figure03.gif)

Figure 3. Flow chart for identification and characterization of a _S.
pneumoniae_ isolate...view larger

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Catalase test

Catalase is the enzyme that breaks down hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) into H2O and
O2. The oxygen is given off as bubbles in the liquid. The catalase test is
primarily used to differentiate between gram-positive cocci. Members of the
genus _Staphylococcus_ are catalase-positive, and members of the genera
_Streptococcus_ and _Enterococcus_ are catalase-negative.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Performing the catalase test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Grow the isolate(s) to be tested for 18-24 hours on a BAP at 35-37°C with ~5% CO2 (or in a candle-jar).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. From overnight growth on the BAP, use a disposable loop to carefully remove a colony and place it on a glass slide. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not transfer any of the blood agar to the slide as erythrocytes in the blood agar will cause a false-positive reaction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Add 1.0 ml of 3% H2O2 to the slide and mix with the bacteria. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * H2O2 can be obtained from a commercial drug store.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After initially opening, store H2O2 at 4°C in a tightly closed bottle as it will slowly lose potency once opened.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Observe the bacterial suspension on the slide immediately for vigorous bubbling.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. It is essential to use a known positive and negative quality control (QC) strain. A _Staphylococcus_ spp. strain can be used for a positive control and a known _S. pneumoniae_ strain or any other streptococcal spp., i.e., _S. pyogenes_ can be used for a negative control.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Reading the catalase test results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The absence of bubbling from a transferred colony indicates a negative test.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Any bubbling from a transferred colony indicates a positive test (Figure 4).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Troubleshooting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False positives will result from transfer of red blood cells so take care when picking colonies from the BAP for this test.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Quality control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * It is essential to use a known positive and negative QC strain as described in the procedure. Opened bottles should be checked against a known catalase positive organism every 6 months.

![Figure 4 is a picture showing negative and positive catalase test results.
The absence of bubbling from a transferred colony indicates a negative test.
All streptococci are catalase-negative.](/meningitis/lab-
manual/images/chapt8-figure04.gif)

Figure 4. Negative and positive catalase test results. The absence of bubbling
from a transferred colony indicates a negative test. All streptococci are
catalase-negative.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Optochin test

_S. pneumoniae_ strains are sensitive to the chemical optochin
(ethylhydrocupreine hydrochloride). Optochin sensitivity allows for the
presumptive identification of alpha-hemolytic streptococci as _S. pneumoniae_
, although some pneumococcal strains are optochin-resistant. Other alpha-
hemolytic streptococcal species are optochin-resistant.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Performing the optochin test

Optochin (P) disks (6 mm, 5 µg) can be obtained from a commercial vendor.
Optochin disks are often called "P disks" and many commercial versions are
labeled with a capital "P". If a commercial source of P disks is not
available, a 1:4000 solution of ethylhydrocupreine hydrochloride can be
applied to sterile 6 mm filter paper disks.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Grow the strain(s) to be tested for 18-24 hours on a BAP at 35-37°C with ~5% CO2 (or in a candle-jar).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Use a disposable loop to remove an isolated colony from the overnight culture on the BAP and streak onto one half of a BAP. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Two different isolates can be tested on the same plate, but care must be taken to ensure that the cultures do not overlap.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Place a P disk within the streaked area of the plate and incubate the BAP overnight at 35-37°C with ~5% CO2 (or in a candle-jar).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Observe the growth on the BAP near the P disk and measure the zone of inhibition, if applicable.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Reading the optochin test results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Using a 6 mm, 5 µg disk, a zone of inhibition of 14 mm or greater indicates sensitivity and allows for presumptive identification of pneumococci (Figure 5).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zones of inhibition should be measured from the top surface of the plate with the top removed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Use either calipers or a ruler with a handle attached for these measurements. Measure the diameter of the zone holding the ruler over the center of the surface of the disk when measuring the zone of inhibition. In the case of an isolate completely resistant to optochin, the diameter of the disk (6 mm) should be recorded.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Troubleshooting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A smaller zone of inhibition (< 14 mm) or no zone of inhibition indicates that the bile solubility test is required. It is important to remember that pneumococci are sometimes optochin-resistant.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Quality control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Each new lot of optochin disks should be tested with positive and negative controls. The growth of _S. pneumonia_ e strain ATCC 49619 is inhibited by optochin and growth of _S. mitis_ strain ATCC 49456 is not inhibited by optochin.

![Figure 5 is a picture showing the optochin test for S. pneumoniae using
optochin disks. The strain on the left is resistant to optochin with no zone
of inhibition, and therefore is not a pneumococcus. The strain on the right is
susceptible to optochin and is S. pneumoniae.](/meningitis/lab-
manual/images/chapt8-figure05.gif)

Figure 5. Optochin test for _S. pneumoniae_ using optochin disks. The strain
on the left is resistant to optochin with no zone of inhibition, and therefore
is not a pneumococcus. The strain on the right is susceptible to optochin and
is _S. pneumoniae_.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Bile solubility test

The bile (sodium deoxycholate) solubility test distinguishes _S. pneumonia_ e
from all other alpha-hemolytic streptococci. _S. pneumonia_ e is bile soluble
whereas all other alpha-hemolytic streptococci are bile resistant. Sodium
deoxycholate (2% in water) will lyse the pneumococcal cell wall.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Preparation of 2% sodium deoxycholate (bile salt) solution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Dissolve 2 g of sodium deoxycholate into 100 ml sterile distilled water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Performing the bile solubility test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Grow the isolate(s) to be tested for 18-24 hours on a BAP at 35-37°C with ~5% CO2 (or in a candle-jar).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Add bacterial growth from the overnight BAP to 1.0 ml of 0.85% saline to achieve turbidity in the range of a 0.5-1.0 McFarland standard.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Divide the cell suspension equally into 2 tubes (0.5 ml per tube).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Add 0.5 ml of 2% sodium deoxycholate (bile salts) to one tube. Add 0.5 ml of 0.85% saline to the other tube. Mix each tube well.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Incubate the tubes at 35-37°C in CO2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. Vortex the tubes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7. Observe the tubes for any clearing of turbidity after 10 minutes. Continue to incubate the tubes for up to 2 hours at 35-37°C in CO2 if negative after 10 minutes. Observe again for clearing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Reading the bile solubility test results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A clearing of the turbidity in the bile tube but not in the saline control tube indicates a positive test (Figure 6).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Troubleshooting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Partial clearing (partial solubility) is not considered positive for pneumococcal identification. Partially soluble strains that have optochin zones of inhibition of less than 14 mm are not considered pneumococci.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5. Quality control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Each new lot of sodium deoxycholate should be tested with positive and negative QC strains. _S. pneumonia_ e strain ATCC 49619 can be used as a positive control and _S. mitis_ strain ATCC 49456 can be used as a negative control.

![Figure 6 is a picture showing results of the bile solubility test for two
different strains of bacteria. For strain 1, a slight decrease in turbidity is
observed in the tube containing the bile salts, but the contents are almost as
turbid as the control tube; therefore, strain 1 is not S. pneumoniae. For
strain 2, all turbidity in the tube containing the bile salts has cleared,
indicating that the cells have lysed, in contrast to the control tube, which
remains turbid; therefore, strain 2 is S. pneumoniae.](/meningitis/lab-
manual/images/chapt8-figure06.gif)

Figure 6. Results of the bile solubility test are shown for two different
strains of bacteria. For strain 1, a slight decrease in turbidity is observed
in the tube containing the bile salts (2nd from left), but the contents are
almost as turbid as the control tube (far left); therefore, strain 1 is not
_S. pneumoniae_. For strain 2, all turbidity in the tube containing the bile
salts (far right) has cleared, indicating that the cells have lysed, in
contrast to the control tube (2nd from right), which remains turbid;
therefore, strain 2 is _S. pneumoniae_.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Commercial test kits for identification

Several commercial identification systems that use slide agglutination tests
are available for identification of colony growth from a BAP as _S.
pneumoniae_. These identification tests use suspensions of latex beads with
rabbit antibody specific for _S. pneumoniae_ capsular antigens. Visible
agglutination occurs when the _S. pneumoniae_ capsular antigen reacts with the
antibody-coated latex beads. The manufacturer's instructions should be
followed precisely when using these kits. These kits should be regularly
subjected to QC using a non-pneumococcal streptococcal species, since they can
become cross-reactive with prolonged storage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Determining _S. pneumoniae_ capsular serotypes using serologic methods

Although serotyping of pneumococci is not usually necessary for a clinical
response, capsular serotype determination is a critical component of
successful pneumococcal disease surveillance efforts. Effective current
multivalent vaccines target combinations of key serotypes. Determination of
serotype distributions associated with disease in certain regions provides
information regarding the potential usefulness of applying existing vaccines
and is also critical for assessing vaccine impact.

Serotype distribution can be determined by culture of the organism followed by
serological determination of the capsular type by latex agglutination and the
quellung reaction. Many laboratories have opted to use simpler and less
expensive methods of deducing capsular serotypes through the use of specific
PCR reactions (see Chapter 10: PCR Methods and PCR Deduction of Pneumococcal
Serotypes for specific PCR protocols).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Latex agglutination

The standard quellung reaction test for serotyping pneumococci can be labor-
intensive and time-consuming, and requires a certain level of experience to be
performed competently. An agglutination method using anti-rabbit IgG-coated
latex particles sensitized to pooled and select individual serotype-specific
antisera (PCV7 serotypes: 4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F, 23F) for
serogrouping/serotyping _S. pneumoniae_ has been developed and kits are
commercially available. The latex agglutination method is simpler and faster
than the quellung reaction, but is only intended for partial serotyping as it
can only narrow the identification down to a group or pool of serotypes. Then
the quellung reaction should be performed using individual serotype-specific
antisera for each serotype in the group or pool to identify the serotype.

##### Performing latex agglutination testing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Grow the isolate(s) to be tested for 18-24 hours on a BAP at 35-37°C with ~5% CO2 (or in a candle-jar).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. From overnight growth on a BAP, use a sterile loop to prepare a light to moderate cell suspension (approximately equal to a 0.5 McFarland density standard) in 0.5 ml of 0.85% saline.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. On a glass slide or reaction card, add 10 µl (1 droplet) of the latex reagent and 10 µl of the cell suspension. Mix the two suspensions together.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. After 10-30 seconds, observe the latex agglutination reaction at an angle with oblique lighting.

##### Reading the latex agglutination results

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A positive reaction is indicated by agglutination (cells clumping together) appearing within 5-10 seconds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A negative reaction is indicated by no agglutination appearing within 5-10 seconds.

##### Troubleshooting

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The latex agglutination reaction should be examined within 5-10 seconds. If the reaction time exceeds 30 seconds, false positive reactions may occur.

##### Quality control

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Each lot of latex suspension should be tested for positive agglutination reactions using _S. pneumoniae_ reference strains with known capsular serotypes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. Quellung reaction

For proper quellung-based serotyping, a high quality microscope is required. A
positive quellung or Neufeld reaction is the result of the binding of the
capsular polysaccharide of pneumococci with type specific antibody contained
in the typing antiserum. Pneumococcal typing sera are commercially available
as pooled, group, or serotype-specific (see
https://www.ssi.dk/English.aspxExternal). It is recommended to initially test
with pooled antisera in succession until a positive reaction is observed.
Typing should then proceed by testing with individual group and serotype-
specific antisera included in the antisera pool that gave a positive reaction
to determine the serogroup and serotype. An antigen-antibody reaction causes a
change in the refractive index of the capsule so that it appears "swollen" and
more visible. After the addition of a counter stain (methylene blue), the
pneumococcal cells stain dark blue and are surrounded by a sharply demarcated
halo which represents the outer edge of the capsule. The light transmitted
through the capsule appears brighter than either the pneumococcal cell or the
background. Single cells, pairs, chains, and even clumps of cells may have
positive quellung reactions.

##### Performing the quellung reaction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Grow the isolate(s) to be tested for 18-24 hours on a BAP at 35-37°C with ~5% CO2 (or in a candle-jar).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. From overnight growth on the BAP, use a sterile loop to prepare a light to moderate cell suspension (approximately equal to a 0.5 McFarland density standard) in 0.5 ml of 0.85% saline. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Optimum quellung reactions can be observed when there are 25-50 cells visible in a microscopic field at 1000X magnification.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Dispense equal amounts of antiserum (5 µl) and methylene blue (5 µl) onto a microscope slide. Add approximately 0.2-1.0 µl of the diluted cell suspension and mix all three with a pipette tip.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Cover the suspension with a 22 mm2 square cover-slip and incubate at room temperature (25°C) for 10-15 minutes. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Do not allow the fluid on the slide to dry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5. Examine the slide at 1000X using an oil immersion lens.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6. Begin testing with pooled antisera. Once a positive reaction is obtained, proceed with individual group and serotype-specific antisera included in the pooled antisera that gave the positive reaction to determine the serogroup and serotype.

##### Reading the quellung reaction results

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A positive quellung reaction is observed when the capsule appears as a sharply demarcated halo around the dark blue stained cell (Figure 7).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A negative quelling reaction is observed when there is no appearance of a clear, enlarged halo surrounding the stained cell.

##### Troubleshooting

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * In some instances, observing a positive reaction can be difficult. Prepare and read all quellung reactions on the same day that the cell suspension is prepared.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * When reading the reactions, look for free floating single or paired cells.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Agglutination (cells clumping together) is NOT a positive quellung reaction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If a quellung reaction is not observed in any of the antisera pools, the strain may be non-typeable, but identification of the strain as _S. pneumoniae_ should be confirmed by optochin susceptibility and bile solubility testing.

##### Quality control

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Each lot of antisera received should be tested for positive quellung reactions using _S. pneumoniae_ reference strains with known capsular serotypes.

![Figure 7 is a picture showing that in a positive quellung reaction, the
capsule appears as an enlarged clear halo surrounding the dark blue stained
cell.](/meningitis/lab-manual/images/chapt8-figure07.gif)

Figure 7. In a positive quellung reaction, the capsule appears as an enlarged
clear halo surrounding the dark blue stained cell

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Determining _S. pneumoniae_ capsular serotypes using PCR-based methods

The high cost of antisera, subjectivity in interpretation, and technical
expertise requirements associated with these serologic methods have resulted
in the development of PCR-based serotyping systems. PCR-based serotyping has
the potential to overcome some of the difficulties associated with serologic
testing and assays for direct detection of serotypes from clinical specimens
are a valuable aid in surveillance, particularly in situations where culture
is insensitive.

Conventional PCR-based methods have been developed to determine the serotypes
of _S. pneumoniae_ specimens. Conventional multiplex PCR assays are available
for detecting 40 of the 93 _S. pneumoniae_ serotypes. Schemes for testing
based on the strains that are historically and/or currently circulating in
specific regions are listed in Chapter 10: PCR Methods. Published real-time
PCR serotyping assays are also available for many common pneumococcal
serotypes.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. General methods for genotyping _S. pneumoniae_

The continued study of the "seroepidemiology" of pneumococcal disease and
carriage isolates is important for understanding selective effects upon
regional population structures of this species. Trends in pneumococcal
carriage and disease epidemiology are influenced by selective factors in the
environment, such as the use of antimicrobial drugs and the introduction of
conjugate vaccines. Understanding questions related to long-term effects of
such pressures on the pneumococcal population require precise isolate
characterization using molecular methods to characterize the strains at the
genetic level. Chapter 12: Molecular Methods describes some of the most common
typing methodologies used to differentiate _S. pneumoniae_ and includes
pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), multilocus sequence typing (MLST) and
the use of more variable loci such as the penicillin binding protein ( _pbp_ )
genes and the pneumococcal surface protein ( _pspA_ ) gene.

 Top of Page

Back to Laboratory Methods Manual

View Page In:Cdc-pdf PDF [464K]

Page last reviewed: April 15, 2016

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Meningitis Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bacterial Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Methods for the Diagnosis of Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disclosure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Authors/Acknowledgements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Annex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Viral Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fungal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Parasitic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Amebic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Non-infectious Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources for Healthcare Professionals

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vaccine Schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preteen & Teen Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Meningococcal Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sepsis

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

