Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001566.htm    
                                Description: Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the unexpected, sudden death of a child under age 1. An autopsy does not show an explainable cause of death.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sudden infant death syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001566.htm

# Sudden infant death syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the unexpected, sudden death of a child
under age 1. An autopsy does not show an explainable cause of death.

## Causes

The cause of SIDS is unknown. Many doctors and researchers now believe that
SIDS is caused by many factors, including:

    * Problems with the baby's ability to wake up (sleep arousal)
    * Inability for the baby's body to detect a buildup of carbon dioxide in the blood

SIDS rates have gone down sharply since doctors began recommending that babies
be put on their backs or sides to sleep to reduce the chance of problem.
However, SIDS is still a major cause of death in infants under 1 year old.
Thousands of babies die of SIDS in the United States each year.

SIDS is most likely to occur between 2 and 4 months of age. SIDS affects boys
more often than girls. Most SIDS deaths occur in the winter.

The following may increase the risk for SIDS:

    * Sleeping on the stomach
    * Being around cigarette smoke while in the womb or after being born
    * Sleeping in the same bed as their parents (co-sleeping)
    * Soft bedding in the crib
    * Multiple birth babies (being a twin, triplet, etcetera.)
    * Premature birth
    * Having a brother or sister who had SIDS
    * Mothers who smoke or use illegal drugs
    * Being born to a teen mother
    * Short time period between pregnancies
    * Late or no prenatal care
    * Living in poverty situations

While studies show that babies with the above risk factors are more likely to
be affected, the impact or importance of each factor is not well-defined or
understood.

## Symptoms

Almost all SIDS deaths happen without any warning or symptoms. Death occurs
when the infant is thought to be sleeping.

## Exams and Tests

Autopsy results are not able to confirm a cause of death. However, the
information from an autopsy can add to overall knowledge about SIDS. State law
may require an autopsy in the case of unexplainable death.

## Support Groups

Parents who have lost a child to SIDS need emotional support. Many parents
suffer from feelings of guilt. The investigations required by law into an
unexplained cause of death may make these feelings more painful.

A member of a local chapter of the National Foundation for Sudden Infant Death
Syndrome may assist with counseling and reassurance to parents and family
members.

Family counseling may be recommended to help siblings and all family members
cope with the loss of an infant.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your baby is not moving or breathing, begin CPR and call 911. Parents and
caregivers of all infants and children should be trained in CPR.

## Prevention

The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends the following:

 **Always put a baby to sleep on its back.** (This includes naps.) Do NOT put
a baby to sleep on its stomach. Also, a baby can roll onto the stomach from
its side, so this position should be avoided.

**Put babies on a firm surface (such as in the crib) to sleep.** Never allow
the baby to sleep in bed with other children or adults, and do NOT put them to
sleep on other surfaces, such as a sofa.

 **Let babies sleep in the same room (NOT the same bed) as parents.** If
possible, babies' cribs should be placed in the parents' bedroom to allow for
night-time feeding.

 **Avoid soft bedding materials.** Babies should be placed on a firm, tight-
fitting crib mattress without loose bedding. Use a light sheet to cover the
baby. Do not use pillows, comforters, or quilts.

 **Make sure the room temperature is not too hot.** The room temperature
should be comfortable for a lightly clothed adult. A baby should not be hot to
the touch.

 **Offer the baby a pacifier when going to sleep.** Pacifiers at naptime and
bedtime can reduce the risk for SIDS. Health care professionals think that a
pacifier might allow the airway to open more, or prevent the baby from falling
into a deep sleep. If the baby is breastfeeding, it is best to wait until 1
month before offering a pacifier, so that it doesn't interfere with
breastfeeding.

 **Do not use breathing monitors or products marketed as ways to reduce
SIDS.** Research found that these devices do not help prevent SIDS.

Other recommendations from SIDS experts:

    * Keep your baby in a smoke-free environment.
    * Mothers should avoid alcohol and drug use during and after pregnancy.
    * Breastfeed your baby, if possible. Breastfeeding reduces some upper respiratory infections that may influence the development of SIDS.
    * Never give honey to a child younger than 1 year old. Honey in very young children may cause infant botulism, which may be associated with SIDS.

## Alternative Names

Crib death; SIDS

## References

Hauck FR, Carlin RF, Moon RY, Hunt CE. Sudden infant death syndrome. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 402.

Myerburg RJ, Goldberger JJ. Cardiac arrest and sudden cardiac death. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 42.

Task Force On Sudden Infant Death Syndrome; Moon RY, Darnall RA, Feldman-
Winter L, Goodstein MH, Hauck FR. SIDS and other sleep-related infant deaths:
Updated 2016 Recommendations for a safe infant sleeping environment.
_Pediatrics_. 2016;138(5). pii: e20162938. PMID: 27940804
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27940804.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sudden Infant Death
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SuddenInfantDeathSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Sudden
Infant Death Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

