Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001429.htm    
                                Description: Rhabdomyosarcoma is a cancerous (malignant) tumor of the muscles that are attached to the bones. This cancer mostly affects children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rhabdomyosarcoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001429.htm

# Rhabdomyosarcoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rhabdomyosarcoma is a cancerous (malignant) tumor of the muscles that are
attached to the bones. This cancer mostly affects children.

## Causes

Rhabdomyosarcoma can occur in many places in the body. The most common sites
are the head or neck, the urinary or reproductive system, and the arms or
legs.

The cause of rhabdomyosarcoma is unknown. It is a rare tumor with only several
hundred new cases per year in the United States.

Some children with certain birth defects are at an increased risk. Some
families have a gene mutation that increases this risk. Most children with
rhabdomyosarcoma do not have any known risk factors.

## Symptoms

The most common symptom is a mass that may or may not be painful.

Other symptoms vary depending on location of the tumor.

    * Tumors in the nose or throat may cause bleeding, congestion, swallowing problems, or nervous system problems if they extend into the brain.
    * Tumors around the eyes may cause bulging of the eye, problems with vision, swelling around the eye, or pain.
    * Tumors in the ears, may cause pain, hearing loss, or swelling.
    * Bladder and vaginal tumors may cause trouble starting to urinate or having a bowel movement, or poor control of urine.
    * Muscle tumors may lead to a painful lump, and can be mistaken for an injury. 

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is often delayed because there aren't symptoms and because the tumor
may appear at the same time as a recent injury. Early diagnosis is important
because this cancer spreads quickly.

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Detailed questions will
be asked about symptoms and medical history.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest to look for spread of the tumor
    * CT scan of the tumor site
    * Bone marrow biopsy (may show the cancer has spread)
    * Bone scan to look for spread of the tumor
    * MRI scan of the tumor site
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the site and type of rhabdomyosarcoma.

Either radiation or chemotherapy, or both, will be used before or after
surgery. In general, surgery and radiation therapy are used to treat the
primary site of the tumor. Chemotherapy is used to treat disease at all sites
in the body.

Chemotherapy is an essential part of treatment to prevent spread and
recurrence of the cancer. Many different chemotherapy drugs are active against
rhabdomyosarcoma. Your provider will discuss these with you.

## Support Groups

The stress of illness can be eased by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With intensive treatment, most children with rhabdomyosarcoma are able to
survive long-term. Cure depends on the specific type of tumor, its location,
and how much it has spread.

## Possible Complications

Complications of this cancer or its treatment include:

    * Complications from chemotherapy
    * Location in which surgery is not possible
    * Spread of the cancer (metastasis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of rhabdomyosarcoma.

## Alternative Names

Soft tissue cancer - rhabdomyosarcoma; Soft tissue sarcoma; Alveolar
rhabdomyosarcoma; Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma; Sarcoma botryoides

## References

Dome JS, Rodriguez-Galindo C, Spunt SL, Santana VM. Pediatric solid tumors.
In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 95.

Goldblum JR, Folpe AL, Weiss SW. Rhabdomyosarcoma. In: Goldblum JR, Folpe AL,
Weiss SW, eds. _Enzinger and Weiss's Soft Tissue Tumors_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 20.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood rhabdomyosarcoma treatment (PDQ)
â health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/soft-tissue-
sarcoma/hp/rhabdomyosarcoma-treatment-pdq. Updated February 2, 2018. Accessed
March 9, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cancer in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CancerinChildren_thumb.jpg)Cancer in
Children _Read more_

![Soft Tissue
Sarcoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SoftTissueSarcoma2_thumb.jpg)Soft
Tissue Sarcoma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

