Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007654.htm    
                                Description: Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) is cancer that forms in the soft tissue of the body. Soft tissue connects, supports, or surrounds other body parts. In adults, STS is rare.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adult soft tissue sarcoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007654.htm

# Adult soft tissue sarcoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) is cancer that forms in the soft tissue of the body.
Soft tissue connects, supports, or surrounds other body parts. In adults, STS
is rare.

There are many different types of soft tissue cancers. The type of sarcoma
depends on the tissue it forms in:

    * Muscles
    * Tendons
    * Fat
    * Blood vessels
    * Lymph vessels
    * Nerves
    * Tissues in and around joints

The cancer can form almost anywhere, but is most common in the:

    * Head
    * Neck
    * Arms
    * Legs
    * Trunk
    * Abdomen

## Causes

It is not known what causes most sarcomas. But there are certain risk factors:

    * Some inherited diseases, such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome
    * Radiation therapy for other cancers
    * Exposure to certain chemicals, such as vinyl chloride or certain herbicides
    * Having swelling in the arms or legs for a long time (lymphedema) 

## Symptoms

In early stages, there are often no symptoms. As the cancer grows, it may
cause a lump or swelling that keeps growing over time. Most lumps are NOT
cancer.

Other symptoms include:

    * Pain, if it presses on a nerve, organ, blood vessel, or muscle
    * Blockage or bleeding in the stomach or intestines
    * Breathing problems

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will ask you about your medical history and do a
physical exam. Other tests may include:

    * X-rays
    * CT scan
    * MRI
    * PET scan

If your provider suspects cancer, you might have a biopsy to check for cancer.
In a biopsy, your provider collects a tissue sample to examine in the lab.

The biopsy will show if cancer is present and help show how quickly it is
growing. Your provider may ask for more tests to stage the cancer. Staging can
tell how much cancer is present and whether it has spread.

## Treatment

Surgery is the most common treatment for STS.

    * In early stages, the tumor and some healthy tissue around it is removed.
    * Sometimes, just a small amount of tissue needs to be removed. Other times, a wider area of tissue must be removed.
    * With advanced cancers that form in an arm or leg, surgery may be followed by radiation or chemotherapy. Rarely, the limb may need to be amputated.

You also may have radiation or chemotherapy:

    * Used before surgery to help shrink the tumor to make it easier to remove the cancer
    * Used after surgery to kill any remaining cancer cells

Chemotherapy may be used to help kill cancer that has metastasized. This means
it has spread to different areas of the body.

## Support Groups

Cancer affects how you feel about yourself and your life. You can ease the
stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing with others who
have had the same experiences and problems can help you feel less alone.

Ask your provider to help you find a support group for people who have been
diagnosed with STS.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook for people whose cancer is treated early is very good. Most people
who survive 5 years can expect to be cancer-free at 10 years.

## Possible Complications

Complications include side effects from surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider about any lump that grows in size or is painful.

## Prevention

The cause of most STSs isn't known and there is no way to prevent it. Knowing
your risk factors and telling your provider when you first notice symptoms can
increase your chance of surviving this type of cancer.

## Alternative Names

STS; Leiomyosarcoma; Hemangiosarcoma; Kaposi's sarcoma; Lymphangiosarcoma;
Synovial sarcoma; Neurofibrosarcoma; Liposarcoma; Fibrosarcoma; Malignant
fibrous histiocytoma; Dermatofibrosarcoma; Angiosarcoma

## References

Contreras CM, Heslin MJ. Soft tissue sarcoma. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

Helman LJ, Maki RG. Sarcomas of soft tissue. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 93.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult soft tissue sarcoma treatment (PDQ) -
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/soft-tissue-
sarcoma/hp/adult-soft-tissue-treatment-pdq#section/all. Updated June 29, 2018.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Soft Tissue
Sarcoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SoftTissueSarcoma2_thumb.jpg)Soft
Tissue Sarcoma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

