Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000708.htm    
                                Description: Horner syndrome is a rare condition that affects the nerves to the eye and face.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Horner syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000708.htm

# Horner syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Horner syndrome is a rare condition that affects the nerves to the eye and
face.

## Causes

Horner syndrome can be causedÂ by any interruption in a set of nerve fibers
that start in the part of the brain called the hypothalamus and travel to the
face and eyes. These nerve fibers are involved with sweating, the pupils in
your eyes, and the upper and lower eyelid muscles.

Damage of the nerve fibers can result from:

    * Injury to the carotid artery, one of the main arteries to the brain
    * Injury to nerves at the base of the neck called the brachial plexus
    * Migraine or cluster headaches
    * Stroke, tumor, or other damage to a part of the brain called the brainstem
    * Tumor in the top of the lung, between the lungs, and neck
    * Injections or surgery done to interrupt the nerve fibers and relieve pain (sympathectomy)
    * Spinal cord injury

In rare cases, Horner syndrome is present at birth. The condition may occur
with a lack of color (pigmentation) of the iris (colored part of the eye).

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Horner syndrome may include:

    * Decreased sweating on the affected side of the face
    * Drooping eyelid (ptosis)
    * Sinking of the eyeball into the face
    * Different sizes of pupils of the eyes (anisocoria)

There may also be other symptoms, depending on the location of the affected
nerve fiber. These may include:

    * Vertigo (sensation that surroundings are spinning) with nausea and vomiting
    * Double vision
    * Lack of muscle control and coordination
    * Arm pain, weakness and numbness
    * One sided neck and ear pain
    * Hoarseness
    * Hearing loss
    * Bladder and bowel difficulty
    * Overreaction of the involuntary (autonomic) nervous system to stimulation (hyperreflexia)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

An eye exam may show:

    * Changes in how the pupil opens or closes
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Red eye

Depending on the suspected cause, tests may be done, such as:

    * Blood tests
    * Blood vessel tests of the head (angiogram)
    * Chest x-ray or chest CT scan
    * MRI or CT scan of the brain
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) 

You may need to be referred to a doctor who specializes in vision problems
related to the nervous system (neuro-ophthalmologist).

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the underlying cause of the condition. There is no
treatment for Horner syndrome itself. Ptosis is very mild and in rare cases
affects vision in Horner syndrome. This can be corrected by cosmetic surgery
or treated with eyedrops. The provider can tell you more.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on whether treatment of the cause is successful.

## Possible Complications

There are no direct complications of Horner syndrome itself. But, there may be
complications from the disease that caused Horner syndrome or from its
treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of Horner syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Oculosympathetic paresis

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Balcer LJ. Pupillary disorders. In: Liu GT, Volpe NJ, Galetta SL, eds. _Liu,
Volpe, and Galetta's Neuro-Ophthalmology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 13.

Guluma K. Diplopia. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

Thurtell MJ, Rucker JC. Pupillary and eyelid abnormalities. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autonomic Nervous System
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutonomicNervousSystemDisorders_thumb.jpg)Autonomic
Nervous System Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

