Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000757.htm    
                                Description: Multiple system atrophy- parkinsonian type (MSA-P) is a rare condition that causes symptoms similar to Parkinson disease. However, people with MSA-P have more widespread damage to the part of the nervous    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple system atrophy - parkinsonian type

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000757.htm

# Multiple system atrophy - parkinsonian type

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multiple system atrophy- parkinsonian type (MSA-P) is a rare condition that
causes symptoms similar to Parkinson disease. However, people with MSA-P have
more widespread damage to the part of the nervous system that controls
important functions such as heart rate, blood pressure, and sweating.

The other subtype of MSA is MSA-cerebellar. It mainly affects areas deep in
the brain, just above the spinal cord.

## Causes

The cause of MSA-P is unknown. The affected areas of the brain overlap with
areas affected by Parkinson disease, with similar symptoms. For this reason,
this subtype of MSA is called parkinsonian.

MSA-P is most often diagnosed in men older than 60.

## Symptoms

MSA damages the nervous system. The disease tends to progress rapidly. About
one half of people with MSA-P have lost most of their motor skills within 5
years of onset of the disease.

Symptoms may include:

    * Tremors
    * Movement difficulties, such as slowness, loss of balance, shuffling when walking
    * Frequent falls
    * Muscle aches and pains (myalgia), and stiffness
    * Face changes, such as a masklike appearance to the face and staring
    * Difficulty chewing or swallowing (occasionally), not able to close the mouth
    * Disrupted sleep patterns (often during rapid eye movement [REM] sleep late at night)
    * Dizziness or fainting when standing up or after standing still
    * Erection problems
    * Loss of control over bowels or bladder
    * Problems with activity that requires small movements (loss of fine motor skills), such as writing that is small and hard to read
    * Loss of sweating in any part of the body
    * Decline in mental function
    * Nausea and problems with digestion
    * Posture problems, such as unstable, stooped, or slumped over
    * Vision changes, decreased or blurred vision
    * Voice and speech changes 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

    * Confusion
    * Dementia
    * Depression
    * Sleep-related breathing difficulties, includingÂ sleep apnea or a blockage in the air passage that leads to a harsh vibrating sound 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you, and check your eyes, nerves, and
muscles.

Your blood pressure will be taken while you are lying down and standing up.

There are no specific tests to confirm this disease. A doctor who specializes
in the nervous system (neurologist) can make the diagnosis based on:

    * History of symptoms
    * Physical examination results
    * Ruling out other causes of symptoms 

Testing to help confirm the diagnosis may include:

    * MRI of head
    * Plasma norepinephrine levels
    * Urine examination for norepinephrine breakdown products (urine catecholamines) 

## Treatment

There is no cure for MSA-P. There is no known way to prevent the disease from
getting worse. The goal of treatment is to control symptoms.

Dopaminergic medicines, such as levodopa and carbidopa, may be used to reduce
early or mild tremors.

But, for many people with MSA-P, these medicines do not work well.

Medicines may be used to treat low blood pressure.

A pacemaker that is programmed to stimulate the heart to beat at a rapid rate
(faster than 100 beats per minute) may increase blood pressure for some
people.

Constipation can be treated with a high-fiber diet and laxatives. Medicines
are available to treat erection problems.

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information on MSA-P:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/multiple-system-atrophy
    * The MSA Coalition -- www.multiplesystematrophy.org/about-msa

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome for MSA is poor. Loss of mental and physical functions slowly get
worse. Early death is likely. People typically live 7 to 9 years after
diagnosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of this disorder.

Call your provider if you have been diagnosed with MSA and your symptoms
return or get worse. Also call if new symptoms appear, including possible side
effects of medicines, such as:

    * Changes in alertness/behavior/mood
    * Delusional behavior
    * Dizziness
    * Hallucinations
    * Involuntary movements
    * Loss of mental functioning
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Severe confusion or disorientation 

If you have a family member with MSA and their condition declines to the point
that you are unable to care for the person at home, seek advice from your
family member's provider.

## Alternative Names

Shy-Drager syndrome; Neurologic orthostatic hypotension; Shy-McGee-Drager
syndrome; Parkinson plus syndrome; MSA-P; MSA-C

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Fanciulli A, Wenning GK. Multiple system atrophy. _N Engl J Med_.
2015;372(3):249-263. PMID: 25587949 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25587949.

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Romero-Ortuno R, Wilson KJ, Hampton JL. Disorders of the autonomic nervous
system. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of
Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 63.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Autonomic Nervous System
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutonomicNervousSystemDisorders_thumb.jpg)Autonomic
Nervous System Disorders _Read more_

![Degenerative Nerve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DegenerativeNerveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Degenerative
Nerve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

