Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001387.htm    
                                Description: Familial dysautonomia (FD) is an inherited disorder that affects nerves throughout the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Familial dysautonomia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001387.htm

# Familial dysautonomia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Familial dysautonomia (FD) is an inherited disorder that affects nerves
throughout the body.

## Causes

FD is passed down through families (inherited). A person must inherit a copy
of the defective gene from each parent to develop the condition.

FD occurs most often in people of Eastern European Jewish ancestry (Ashkenazi
Jews). It is caused by a change (mutation) to a gene. It is rare in the
general population.

## Symptoms

FD affects the nerves in the autonomic (involuntary) nervous system. These
nerves manage daily body functions such as blood pressure, heart rate,
sweating, bowel and bladder emptying, digestion, and the senses.

Symptoms of FD are present at birth and may grow worse over time. Symptoms
vary, and may include:

    * Swallowing problems in infants, resulting in aspiration pneumonia or poor growth
    * Breath-holding spells, resulting in fainting
    * Constipation or diarrhea
    * Inability to feel pain and changes in temperature (can lead to injuries)
    * Dry eyes and lack of tears when crying
    * Poor coordination and unsteady walk
    * Seizures
    * Unusually smooth, pale tongue surface and lack of taste buds and decrease in sense of taste

After 3 years old, most children develop autonomic crises. These are episodes
of vomiting with very high blood pressure, racing heart, fever, and sweating.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam to look for:

    * Absent or decreased deep tendon reflexes
    * Lack of a response after receiving a histamine injection (normally redness and swelling would occur)
    * Lack of tears with crying
    * Low muscle tone, most often in babies
    * Severe curving of the spine (scoliosis)
    * Tiny pupils after receiving certain eye drops 

Blood tests are available to check for the gene mutation that causes FD.

## Treatment

FD can't be cured. Treatment is aimed at managing the symptoms and may
include:

    * Medicines to help prevent seizures
    * Feeding in an upright position and giving textured formula to prevent gastroesophageal reflux (stomach acid and food coming back up, also called GERD)
    * Measures to prevent low blood pressure when standing, such as increasing intake of fluid, salt, and caffeine, and wearing elastic stockings
    * Medicines to control vomiting
    * Medicines to prevent dry eyes
    * Physical therapy of the chest
    * Measures to protect against injury
    * Providing enough nutrition and fluids
    * Surgery or spinal fusion to treat spine problems
    * Treating aspiration pneumonia 

## Support Groups

These organizations can provide support and more information:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org
    * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/familial-dysautonomia

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Advances in diagnosis and treatment are increasing the survival rate. About
one half of babies born with FD will live to age 30.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms change or get worse. A genetic counselor can
help teach you about the condition and direct you to support groups in your
area.

## Prevention

Genetic DNA testing is very accurate for FD. It may be used for diagnosing
people with the condition or those who carry the gene. It can also be used for
prenatal diagnosis.

People of Eastern European Jewish background and families with a history of FD
may wish to seek genetic counseling if they are thinking of having children.

## Alternative Names

Riley-Day syndrome; FD; Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy - type III
(HSAN III); Autonomic crises - familial dysautonomia

## Images

    * ![Chromosomes and DNA](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8770t.jpg)Chromosomes and DNA

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Sarnat HB. Autonomic neuropathies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 615.

Wapner RJ, Dugoff L. Prenatal diagnosis of congenital disorders. In: Resnik R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 32.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Autonomic Nervous System
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AutonomicNervousSystemDisorders_thumb.jpg)Autonomic
Nervous System Disorders _Read more_

![Degenerative Nerve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DegenerativeNerveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Degenerative
Nerve Diseases _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

