Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003092.htm    
                                Description: Fainting is a brief loss of consciousness due to a drop in blood flow to the brain. The episode most often lasts less than a couple of minutes and you usually recover from it quickly. The medical name    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fainting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003092.htm

# Fainting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fainting is a brief loss of consciousness due to a drop in blood flow to the
brain. The episode most often lasts less than a couple of minutes and you
usually recover from it quickly. The medical name for fainting is syncope.

## Considerations

When you faint, you not only lose consciousness, you also lose muscle tone and
the color in your face. Before fainting, you may feel weak, sweaty, or
nauseated. You may have the sense that your vision is constricting (tunnel
vision) or noises are fading into the background.

## Causes

Fainting may occur while or after you:

    * Cough very hard
    * Have a bowel movement, especially if you are straining
    * Have been standing in one place for too long
    * Urinate 

Fainting can also be related to:

    * Emotional distress
    * Fear
    * Severe pain 

Other causes of fainting, some of which may be more serious, include:

    * Certain medicines, including those used for anxiety, depression, and high blood pressure. These medicines may cause a drop in blood pressure.
    * Drug or alcohol use.
    * Heart disease, such as abnormal heart rhythm or heart attack and stroke.
    * Rapid and deep breathing (hyperventilation).
    * Low blood sugar.
    * Seizures.
    * Sudden drop in blood pressure, such as from bleeding or being severely dehydrated.
    * Standing up very suddenly from a lying position.Â 

## Home Care

If you have a history of fainting, follow your health care provider's
instructions for how to prevent fainting. For example, if you know the
situations that cause you to faint, avoid or change them.

Get up from a lying or seated position slowly. If having blood drawn makes you
faint, tell your provider before having a blood test. Make sure that you are
lying down when the test is done.

You can use these immediate treatment steps when someone has fainted:

    * Check the person's airway and breathing. If necessary, call 911 and begin rescue breathing and CPR.
    * Loosen tight clothing around the neck.
    * Raise the person's feet above the level of the heart (about 12 inches or 30 centimeters).
    * If the person has vomited, turn them on their side to prevent choking.
    * Keep the person lying down for at least 10 to 15 minutes, preferably in a cool and quiet space. If this is not possible, sit the person forward with their head between their knees. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if the person who fainted:

    * Fell from a height, especially if injured or bleeding
    * Does not become alert quickly (within a couple of minutes)
    * Is pregnant
    * Is over age 50
    * Has diabetes (check for medical identification bracelets)
    * Feels chest pain, pressure, or discomfort
    * Has a pounding or irregular heartbeat
    * Has a loss of speech, vision problems, or is unable to move one or more limbs
    * Has convulsions, a tongue injury, or a loss of bladder or bowel control 

Even if it is not an emergency situation, you should be seen by a provider if
you have never fainted before, if you faint often, or if you have new symptoms
with fainting. Call for an appointment to be seen as soon as possible.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will ask questions to determine whether you simply fainted, or
if something else happened (such asÂ a seizure or heart rhythm disturbance),
and to figure out the cause of the fainting episode. If someone saw the
fainting episode, their description of the event may be helpful.

The physical exam will focus on your heart, lungs, and nervous system. Your
blood pressure may be checked while you are in different positions, such as
lying down and standing. People with a suspected arrhythmia may need to be
admitted to a hospital for testing.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood tests for anemia or body chemical imbalances
    * Cardiac rhythm monitoring
    * Echocardiogram
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * Holter monitor
    * X-ray of the chest

Treatment depends on the cause of fainting.

## Alternative Names

Passed out; Lightheadedness - fainting; Syncope; Vasovagal episode

## References

Calkins H, Zipes DP. Hypotension and syncope. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 43.

De Lorenzo RA. Syncope. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

Walsh K, Hoffmayer K, Hamdan MH. Syncope: diagnosis and management. _Curr
Probl Cardiol_. 2015;40(2):51-86. PMID: 25686850
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25686850.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fainting](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fainting_thumb.jpg)Fainting _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

