Link: https://medlineplus.gov/motionsickness.html    
                                Description: Motion sickness can start suddenly, with a queasy feeling and cold sweats. Read about how you can prevent motion sickness while traveling.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Motion Sickness

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/motionsickness.html

#  Motion Sickness

Also called: Airsickness, Carsickness, Seasickness

## Summary

Motion sickness is a common problem in people traveling by car, train,
airplanes, and especially boats. Anyone can get it, but it is more common in
children, pregnant women, and people taking certain medicines. Motion sickness
can start suddenly, with a queasy feeling and cold sweats. It can then lead to
dizziness and nausea and vomiting.

Your brain senses movement by getting signals from your inner ears, eyes,
muscles, and joints. When it gets signals that do not match, you can get
motion sickness. For example, if you are reading on your phone while riding a
bus, your eyes are focused on something that is not moving, but your inner ear
senses motion.

Where you sit can make a difference. The front seat of a car, forward cars of
a train, upper deck on a boat or wing seats in a plane may give you a smoother
ride. Looking out into the distance - instead of trying to read or look at
something in the vehicle - can also help.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Learn More

    * Car Sickness (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Ginger ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Human Balance System (Vestibular Disorders Association)
    * Mal de Debarquement (Sickness of Disembarkment) (Vestibular Disorders Association) \- PDF
    * Motion Sickness (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Motion Sickness: First Aid (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Travelers' Health: Motion Sickness (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: motion sickness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Motion Sickness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Intranasal Scopolamine for Motion Sickness.
    * Article: Expanded table: some drugs for altitude illness, jet lag, and motion...
    * Article: Normative Responses to Clinical Tests for Cervicogenic Dizziness: Clinical Cervical Torsion...
    * Motion Sickness -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Motion Sickness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MotionSickness.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Motion Sickness is the National
Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 28 August 2019 Topic last reviewed: 11 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

