Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007638.htm    
                                Description: Medial epicondylitis is soreness or pain on the inside of the lower arm near the elbow. It is commonly called golferâs elbow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Medial epicondylitis - golfer's elbow

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007638.htm

# Medial epicondylitis - golfer's elbow

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Medial epicondylitis is soreness or pain on the inside of the lower arm near
the elbow. It is commonly called golferâs elbow.

## Causes

The part of the muscle that attaches to a bone is called a tendon. Some of the
muscles in your forearm attach to the bone on the inside of your elbow.

When you use these muscles over and over again, small tears develop in the
tendons. Over time, this leads to irritation and pain where the tendon is
attached to the bone.

The injury can occur from using poor form or overdoing certain sports, such
as:

    * Golf
    * Baseball and other throwing sports, such as football and javelin
    * Racquet sports, such as tennis
    * Weight training

Repeated twisting of the wrist (such as when using a screwdriver) can lead to
golfer's elbow. People in certain jobs may be more likely to develop it, such
as:

    * Painters
    * Plumbers
    * Construction workers
    * Cooks
    * Assembly-line workers
    * Computer users
    * Butchers

## Symptoms

Symptoms of golfer's elbow include:

    * Elbow pain that runs along the inside of your forearm to your wrist, on the same side as your pinky finger
    * Pain when flexing your wrist, palm down
    * Pain when shaking hands
    * Weak grasp
    * Numbness and tingling from your elbow up and into your pinky and ring fingers

Pain may occur gradually or suddenly. It gets worse when you grasp things or
flex your wrist.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and have you move your fingers,
hand, and wrist. The exam may show:

    * Pain or tenderness when the tendon is gently pressed where it attaches to the upper arm bone, over the inside of the elbow.
    * Pain near the elbow when the wrist is bent downward against resistance.
    * You may have x-rays to rule out other possible causes.

## Treatment

The first step is to rest your arm and avoid the activity that causes your
symptoms for at least 2 to 3 weeks or longer, until the pain goes away. You
may also want to:

    * Put ice on the inside of your elbow 3 to 4 times a day for 15 to 20 minutes.
    * TakeÂ an NSAID medicine. These include ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve), or aspirin.
    * Do stretching and strengthening exercises. Your provider may suggest certain exercises, or you may have physical or occupational therapy. 
    * Gradually return to activity.

If your golfer's elbow is due to a sports activity, you may want to:

    * Ask about any changes you can make in your technique. If you play golf, have an instructor check your form.
    * Check any sports equipment you are using to see if any changes may help. For example, using lighter golf clubs may help.
    * Think about how often you have been playing your sport and if you should cut back the amount of time you play.
    * If you work on a computer, ask your manager about making changes to your work station. Have someone look at how your chair, desk, and computer are set up.
    * You can buy a special brace for golfer's elbow at most drug stores. It wraps around the upper part of your forearm and takes some of the pressure off the muscles.

Your provider may inject cortisone and a numbing medicine around the area
where the tendon attaches to the bone. This may help decrease the swelling and
pain.

If the pain continues after 6 to 12 months of rest and treatment, surgery may
be recommended. Talk with your surgeon about the risks, and ask if surgery
might help.  

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Elbow pain usually gets better without surgery. However, most people who have
surgery have full use of their forearm and elbow afterwards.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * This is the first time you have had these symptoms.
    * Home treatment does not relieve the symptoms.  

## Alternative Names

Baseball elbow; Suitcase elbow

## References

Adams JE, Steinmann SP. Elbow tendinopathies and tendon ruptures. In: Wolfe
SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative
Hand Surgery._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Miller RH, Azar FM, Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow injuries. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics._ 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Elbow Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ElbowInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Elbow
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Sports
injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SportsInjuries_thumb.jpg)Sports
Injuries _Read more_

![Tendinitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tendinitis_thumb.jpg)Tendinitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

