Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000449.htm    
                                Description: Tennis elbow is soreness or pain on the outside (lateral) side of the upper arm near the elbow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tennis elbow

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000449.htm

# Tennis elbow

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tennis elbow is soreness or pain on the outside (lateral) side of the upper
arm near the elbow.

![Elbow - side view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1689.jpg)

## Causes

The part of the muscle that attaches to a bone is called a tendon. Some of the
muscles in your forearm attach to the bone on the outside of your elbow.

When you use these muscles over and over again, small tears develop in the
tendon. Over time, this leads to irritation and pain where the tendon is
attached to the bone.

This injury is common in people who play a lot of tennis or other racket
sports, hence the name "tennis elbow." Backhand is the most common stroke to
cause symptoms.

But any activity that involves repetitive twisting of the wrist (like using a
screwdriver) can lead to this condition. Painters, plumbers, construction
workers, cooks, and butchers are all more likely to develop tennis elbow.

This condition may also be due to repetitive typing on the computer keyboard
and mouse use.

People between 35 to 54 years old are commonly affected.

Sometimes, there is no known cause of tennis elbow.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can include any of the following:

    * Elbow pain that gets worse over time
    * PainÂ that radiatesÂ from the outside of the elbow to the forearm and back of the hand when grasping or twisting
    * Weak grasp 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. The
exam may show:

    * Pain or tenderness when the tendon is gently pressed near where it attaches to the upper arm bone, over the outside of the elbow
    * Pain near the elbow when the wrist is bent backward against resistance

An MRI may be done to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

The first step is to rest your arm for 2 or 3 weeks and avoid or modify the
activity that causes your symptoms. You may also want to:

    * Put ice on the outside of your elbow 2 or 3 times a day.
    * Take NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin. 

If your tennis elbow is due to sports activity, you may want to:

    * Ask your provider about any changes you can make to your technique.
    * Check the sports equipment you are using to see if any changes may help. If you play tennis, changing the grip size of the racket may help.
    * Think about how often you play, and whether you should cut back. 

If your symptoms are related to working on a computer, ask your manager about
changing your workstation or your chair, desk, and computer setup. For
example, a wrist support or a roller mouse may help.

A physical therapist can show you exercises to stretch and strengthen the
muscles of your forearm.

You can buy a special brace (counter force brace) for tennis elbow at most
drugstores. It wraps around the upper part of your forearm and takes some of
the pressure off the muscles.

Your provider may also inject cortisone and a numbing medicine around the area
where the tendon attaches to the bone. This may help decrease the swelling and
pain.

If the pain continues after 6 months of rest and treatment, surgery may be
recommended. Talk with your orthopedic surgeon about the risks and whether
surgery might help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Elbow pain may get better without surgery. But most people who have surgery
have full use of their forearm and elbow afterwards.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * This is the first time you have had these symptoms
    * Home treatment does not relieve the symptoms

## Alternative Names

Epitrochlear bursitis; Lateral epicondylitis; Epicondylitis - lateral;
Tendonitis - elbow

## Images

    * ![Elbow - side view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1689t.jpg)Elbow - side view

## References

Adams JE, Steinmann SP. Elbow tendinopathies and tendon ruptures. In: Wolfe
SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative
Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Biundo JJ. Bursitis, tendinitis, and other periarticular disorders and sports
medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 263.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Elbow Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ElbowInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Elbow
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Sports
injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SportsInjuries_thumb.jpg)Sports
Injuries _Read more_

![Tendinitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tendinitis_thumb.jpg)Tendinitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

