Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007643.htm    
                                Description: Your Achilles tendon joins your calf muscle to your heel. You can tear your Achilles tendon if you land hard on your heel during sports, from a jump, when accelerating, or when stepping into a hole.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Achilles tendon repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007643.htm

# Achilles tendon repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your Achilles tendon joins your calf muscle to your heel. You can tear your
Achilles tendon if you land hard on your heel during sports, from a jump, when
accelerating, or when stepping into a hole.

Surgery to repair the Achilles tendon is done if your Achilles tendon has been
torn into 2 pieces.

## Description

To fix your torn Achilles tendon, the surgeon will:

    * Make a cut down the back of your heel
    * Make several small cuts rather than one large cut

After that, the surgeon will:

    * Bring the ends of your tendon together
    * Sew the ends together
    * Stitch the wound closed

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Before surgery is considered, you and your doctor will talk about ways to take
care of your Achilles tendon rupture.

You may need this surgery if your Achilles tendon has torn and separated.

You need your Achilles tendon to point your toes and push off your foot when
walking. If your Achilles tendon is not fixed, you can have problems walking
up stairs or raising up on your toes. However, studies have shown that
Achilles tendon tears can successfully heal on their own with similar outcomes
as surgery. Talk to your doctor about which course of treatment is best for
you.

## Risks

Risks from anesthesia and surgery are:

    * Breathing problems
    * Reactions to medicines
    * Bleeding or infection

Possible problems from Achilles tendon repair are:

    * Damage to nerves in the foot
    * Foot swelling
    * Problems with blood flow to the foot
    * Wound healing problems, which may require a skin graft or other surgery
    * Scaring of the Achilles tendon
    * Blood clot or deep vein thrombosis
    * Some loss of calf muscle strength

There is a small chance that your Achilles tendon could tear again. About 5
out of 100 people will have their Achilles tendon tear again.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider:

    * If you could be pregnant
    * What medicines you are taking, including medicines, herbs, or supplements you bought without a prescription
    * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol

During the days before the surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help quitting.

On the day of the surgery:

    * You will probably be asked not to drink or eat anything for several hours before the surgery. Take the medicines your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Your provider will tell you when to arrive.

## After the Procedure

Work with your providers to keep your pain in control. Your heel may be very
sore.

You will be wearing a cast or splint for a period of time.

Many people can be discharged the same day of the surgery. Some people may
require a short stay in the hospital.

Keep your leg elevated for as much as possible during the first 2 weeks to
reduce swelling and promote wound healing.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You will be able to resume full activity in about 6 months. Expect full
recovery to take about 9 months.

## Alternative Names

Achilles tendon rupture - surgery; Percutaneous Achilles tendon rupture repair

## References

Azar FM. Traumatic disorders. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 48.

Irwin TA. Tendon injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee, Drez, & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 118.

Jasko JJ, Brotzman SB, Giangarra CE. Achilles tendon rupture. In: Giangarra
CE, Manske RC, eds. _Clinical Orthopaedic Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heel Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeelInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Heel
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Sports
injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SportsInjuries_thumb.jpg)Sports
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

