Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000133.htm    
                                Description: Acute mountain sickness is an illness that can affect mountain climbers, hikers, skiers, or travelers at high altitudes, usuallyÂ above 8,000 feet (2,400 meters).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute mountain sickness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000133.htm

# Acute mountain sickness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute mountain sickness is an illness that can affect mountain climbers,
hikers, skiers, or travelers at high altitudes, usuallyÂ above 8,000 feet
(2,400 meters).

## Causes

Acute mountain sickness is caused by reduced air pressure and lower oxygen
levels at high altitudes.

The faster you climb to a high altitude, the more likely you will get acute
mountain sickness.

You are at higher risk for acute mountain sickness if:

    * You live at or near sea level and travel to a high altitude.
    * You have had the illness before.
    * You ascend quickly.
    * You have not acclimatized to the altitude.
    * Alcohol or other substances have interfered with acclimatization.
    * You have medical problems involving the heart, nervous system, or lungs.

## Symptoms

Your symptoms will also depend on the speed of your climb and how hard you
push (exert) yourself. Symptoms range from mild to life-threatening. TheyÂ can
affect the nervous system, lungs, muscles, and heart.

In most cases, symptoms are mild. Symptoms of mild to moderate acute mountain
sickness mayÂ include:

    * Difficulty sleeping
    * Dizziness or light-headedness
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Rapid pulse (heart rate)
    * Shortness of breath with exertion

Symptoms that may occur with more severe acute mountain sickness include:

    * Blue color to the skin (cyanosis)
    * Chest tightness or congestion
    * Confusion
    * Cough
    * Coughing up blood
    * Decreased consciousness or withdrawal from social interaction
    * Gray or pale complexion
    * Cannot walk in a straight line, orÂ walk at all
    * Shortness of breath at rest

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and listen to your chest with a
stethoscope. This mayÂ reveal sounds called crackles (rales) in the lung.
RalesÂ may be a sign of fluid in the lungs.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests
    * Brain CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)

## Treatment

Early diagnosis is important. Acute mountain sickness is easier to treat in
the early stages.

The main treatment for all forms of mountain sickness is to climb down
(descend) to a lower altitude as rapidly and safely as possible. You should
not continue climbing if you develop symptoms.

Extra oxygen should be given, if available.

People with severe mountain sickness may need to be admitted to a hospital.

A medicine called acetazolamide (Diamox) may be given to help you breathe
better. It can help reduce symptoms. This medicine can make you urinate more
often. Make sure you drink plenty of fluids and avoid alcohol when taking this
drug. This medicine works best when taken before reaching a high altitude.

If you have fluid in your lungs (pulmonary edema), treatment may include:

    * Oxygen
    * A high blood pressure medicine called nifedipine
    * Beta agonist inhalers to open the airways
    * Breathing machine in severe cases
    * Medicine to increase blood flow to the lungs called phosphodiesterase inhibitor (such as sildenafil)

Dexamethasone (Decadron) may help reduce acute mountain sickness symptoms and
swelling in the brain (cerebral edema).

Portable hyperbaric chambers allow hikers to simulate conditions at lower
altitudes without actually moving from their location on the mountain. These
devices are very helpful if bad weather or other factors make climbing down
the mountain impossible.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases are mild. Symptoms improve quickly when you climb down the mountain
to a lower altitude.

Severe cases may result in death due to lung problems or brain swelling,
called cerebral edema.

In remote locations, emergency evacuation may not be possible, or treatment
may be delayed. This can have a negative effect onÂ the outcome.

The outlook depends on the rate of descent once symptoms begin. SomeÂ people
are more prone to developing altitude-related sickness and may not respond as
well.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Coma (unresponsiveness)
    * Fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema)
    * Swelling of the brain (cerebral edema), which can lead to seizures, mental changes, or permanent damage to the nervous system
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have or had symptoms of acute mountain sickness,
even if you felt better when you returned to a lower altitude.

Call 911 or your local emergency number if you or another climber have any of
the following symptoms:

    * Severe breathing problems
    * Altered level of alertness
    * Coughing up blood

Climb down the mountainÂ right awayÂ and as safely as possible.

## Prevention

Keys to preventing acute mountain sickness include:

    * Climb the mountain gradually. Gradual ascent is the most important factor in preventing acute mountain sickness.
    * Stop for a day or two of rest for every 2,000 feet (600 meters) ofÂ climb above 8,000 feet (2,400 meters).
    * Sleep at a lower altitude when possible.
    * Make sure that you have the ability to rapidly descend if needed.
    * Learn how to recognize early symptoms of mountain sickness.

If you are traveling above 9,840 feet (3,000 meters), you should carry enough
oxygen for several days.

If you plan on climbing quickly, or climbing to a high altitude, ask your
provider about medicines that may help.

If you are at risk for a low red blood cell count (anemia), ask your provider
if your planned trip is safe. Also ask if an iron supplement is right for you.
Anemia lowers the amount of oxygen in your blood. This makes you more likely
to have mountain sickness.

While climbing:

    * Drink plenty of fluids.
    * Do not drink alcohol.
    * Eat regular meals that areÂ high in carbohydrates.

You should avoid high altitudes if you have heart or lung disease.

## Alternative Names

High altitude cerebral edema; Altitude anoxia; Altitude sickness; Mountain
sickness; High altitude pulmonary edema

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Harris NS. High-altitude medicine. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 136.

Luks AM, Hackett PH. High altitude and preexisting medical conditions. In:
Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Luks AM, Schoene RB, Swenson ER. High altitude. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine._
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 77.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sports
injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SportsInjuries_thumb.jpg)Sports
Injuries _Read more_

![Traveler's
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TravelersHealth_thumb.jpg)Traveler's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

