Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000654.htm    
                                Description: Shin splints occurs when you have pain in the front of your lower leg. The pain of shin splints is from the inflammation of the muscles, tendons, and bone tissue around your shin. Shin splints are a common    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shin splints - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000654.htm

# Shin splints - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shin splints occurs when you have pain in the front of your lower leg. The
pain of shin splints is from the inflammation of the muscles, tendons, and
bone tissue around your shin. Shin splints are a common problem for runners,
gymnasts, dancers, and military recruits. However, there are things you can do
to heal from shin splints and prevent them from getting worse.

## Causes

Shin splints are an overuse problem. You get shin splints from overloading
your leg muscles, tendons or shin bone.

Shin splints happen from overuse with too much activity or an increase in
training. Most often, the activity is high impact and repetitive exercise of
your lower legs. This is why runners, dancers, and gymnasts often get shin
splints. Common activities that cause shin splints are:

    * Running, especially on hills. If you are a new runner, you are at greater risk for shin splints.
    * Increasing your days of training.
    * Increasing the intensity of training, or going a longer distance.
    * Doing exercise that has frequent stops and starts, such as dancing, basketball, or military training.

You are more at risk for shin splints if you:

    * Have flat feet or a very rigid foot arches.
    * Work out on hard surfaces, such as running on the street or playing basketball or tennis on a hard court.
    * Do not wear the proper shoes.
    * Wear worn out shoes. Running shoes lose over half of their shock absorbing ability after 250 miles (400 kilometers) of use. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Pain in one or both legs
    * Sharp or dull, aching pain in the front of your shin
    * Pain when you push on your shins
    * Pain that gets worse during and after exercise
    * Pain that gets better with rest

If you have severe shin splints, your legs may hurt even when you are not
walking.

## Decrease Your Activity

Expect that you need at least 2 to 4 weeks of rest from your sport or
exercise.

    * Avoid repetitive exercise of your lower leg for 1 to 2 weeks. Keep your activity to just the walking that you do during your regular day.
    * Try other low impact activities as long as you do not have pain, such as swimming, elliptical machine, or biking.

After 2 to 4 weeks, if the pain is gone, you can start your usual activities.
Increase your activity level slowly. If the pain returns, stop exercising
right away.

Know that shin splints can take 3 to 6 months to heal. DO NOT rush back into
your sport or exercise. You could injure yourself again.

## Reduce Your Pain and Swelling

Things you can do to ease discomfort include:

    * Ice your shins. Ice several times a day for 3 days or until pain is gone.
    * Do stretching exercises.
    * Take ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin to decrease swelling and to help with pain. Know these medicines have side effects and can cause ulcers and bleeding. Talk to your doctor about how much you can take.
    * Use arch supports. Talk with your doctor and physical therapist about wearing the proper shoes, and about special shock-absorbing insoles or orthotics to wear inside your shoes.
    * Work with a physical therapist. They can use therapies that may help with the pain. They can teach you exercises to strengthen your leg muscles. 

## Prevent Shin Splints When Exercise Again

To prevent shin splints from recurring:

    * Be pain-free for at least 2 weeks before returning to your exercise routine.
    * DO NOT overdo your exercise routine. DO NOT return to your previous level of intensity. Go slower, for a shorter time. Increase your training slowly.
    * Warm up and stretch before and after exercise.
    * Ice your shins after exercise to decrease swelling.
    * Avoid hard surfaces.
    * Wear proper shoes with good support and padding.
    * Consider changing the surface that you do training.
    * Cross train and add in low impact exercise, such as swimming or biking. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Shin splints are most often not serious. Call your health care provider if:

    * You have pain even with rest, icing, and pain relievers after several weeks.
    * You are not sure whether your pain is caused by shin splints.
    * Swelling in your lower legs is getting worse.
    * Your shin is red and feels hot to the touch. 

Your provider may take an x-ray or perform other tests to make sure you do not
have a stress fracture. You will also be checked to make sure you do not have
another shin problem, such as tendonitis or compartment syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Lower leg pain - self-care; Pain - shins - self-care; Anterior tibial pain -
self-care; Medial tibial stress syndrome - self-care; MTSS - self-care;
Exercise-induced leg pain - self-care; Tibial periostitis - self-care;
Posterior tibial shin splints - self-care

## References

Marcussen B, Hogrefe C, Amendola A. Leg pain and exertional compartment
syndromes. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic
Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 112.

Pallin DJ. Knee and lower leg. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 50.

Rothmier JD, Harmon KG, O'Kane JW. Sports medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

Stretanski MF. Shin Splints. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 78.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Leg Injuries and Disorders
    * Sports Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

