Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001041.htm    
                                Description: Salivary gland infections affect the glands that produce spit (saliva). The infection may be due to bacteria or viruses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Salivary gland infections

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001041.htm

# Salivary gland infections

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Salivary gland infections affect the glands that produce spit (saliva). The
infection may be due to bacteria or viruses.

There are 3 pairs of major salivary glands:

    * Parotid glands -- These are the two largest glands. One is located in each cheek over the jaw in front of the ears. Inflammation of one or more of these glands is called parotitis, or parotiditis. 
    * Submandibular glands -- These two glands are located just under both sides of the lower jaw and carry saliva up to the floor of the mouth under the tongue. 
    * Sublingual glands -- These two glands are located just under the front most area of the floor of the mouth.

All of the salivary glands empty saliva into the mouth. The saliva enters the
mouth through ducts that open into the mouth in different places.

## Causes

Salivary gland infections are somewhat common, and they can return in some
people.

Viral infections, such as mumps, often affect the salivary glands. (Mumps most
often involves the parotid salivary gland). Mumps is a rare problem today
because of the MMR vaccine.

Bacterial infections are most often the result of a:

    * Blockage from salivary duct stones
    * Poor cleanliness in the mouth (oral hygiene)
    * Low amounts of water in the body, most often while in the hospital
    * Smoking
    * Chronic illness

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abnormal tastes, foul tastes
    * Decreased ability to open the mouth
    * Dry mouth
    * Fever
    * Mouth or facial "squeezing" pain, especially when eating
    * Redness over the side of the face or the upper neck
    * Swelling of the face (particularly in front of the ears, below the jaw, or on the floor of the mouth)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider or dentist will do an exam to look for enlarged
glands. You may also have pus that drains into the mouth. The gland is often
painful.

A CT scan, MRI scan, or ultrasound may be done if the provider suspects an
abscess, or to look for stones.

Your provider may suggest a mumps blood test if multiple glands are involved.

## Treatment

In some cases, no treatment is needed.

Treatment from your provider may include:

    * Antibiotics if you have a fever or pus drainage, or if the infection is caused by bacteria. Antibiotics are not useful against viral infections. 
    * Surgery or aspiration to drain an abscess if you have one.
    * A new technique, called sialoendoscopy, uses a very small camera and instruments to diagnose and treat infections and other problems in the salivary glands.Â 

Self-care steps you can take at home to help with recovery include:

    * Practice good oral hygiene. Brush your teeth and floss well at least twice a day. This may help with healing and prevent an infection from spreading.
    * Rinse your mouth with warm salt water rinses (one half teaspoon or 3 grams of salt in 1 cup or 240 milliliters of water) to ease pain and keep the mouth moist. 
    * To speed up healing, stop smoking if you are a smoker. 
    * Drink lots of water and use sugar-free lemon drops to increase the flow of saliva and reduce swelling. 
    * Massaging the gland with heat.
    * Using warm compresses on the inflamed gland.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most salivary gland infections go away on their own or are cured with
treatment. Some infections will return. Complications are not common.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Abscess of salivary gland
    * Infection returns
    * Spread of infection (cellulitis, Ludwig's angina) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of a salivary gland infection.
    * You've been diagnosed with a salivary gland infection and symptoms get worse.
    * Get medical help right away if you have a high fever, trouble breathing, or swallowing problems.

## Prevention

In many cases, salivary gland infections can't be prevented. Good oral hygiene
may prevent some cases of bacterial infection.

## Alternative Names

Parotitis; Sialadenitis

## Images

    * ![Head and neck glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9654t.jpg)Head and neck glands

## References

Elluru RG. Physiology of the salivary glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 83.

Jackson NM, Mitchell JL, Walvekar RR. Inflammatory disorders of the salivary
glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 85.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Salivary Gland
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandDisorder_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

