Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001039.htm    
                                Description: Salivary duct stones are deposits of minerals in the ducts that drain the salivary glands. Salivary duct stones are a type of salivary gland disorder.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Salivary duct stones

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001039.htm

# Salivary duct stones

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Salivary duct stones are deposits of minerals in the ducts that drain the
salivary glands. Salivary duct stones are a type of salivary gland disorder.

## Causes

Spit (saliva) is produced by the salivary glands in the mouth. The chemicals
in saliva can form a hard crystal that can block the salivary ducts.

When saliva cannot exit a blocked duct, it backs up into the gland. This may
cause pain and swelling of the gland.

There are three pairs of major salivary glands:

    * Parotid glands --Â These are theÂ two largest glands. One is located in each cheek over the jaw in front of the ears. Inflammation ofÂ one or more of these glands is called parotitis, or parotiditis. 
    * Submandibular glands --Â TheseÂ two glands are located just under both sides of the jaw and carry saliva up to the floor of mouth under the tongue.
    * Sublingual glands --Â TheseÂ two glands are located just under the front area of the floor of the mouth.

Salivary stones most often affect the submandibular glands. They can also
affect the parotid glands.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Problems opening the mouth or swallowing
    * Dry mouth
    * Pain in the face or mouth
    * Swelling of the face or neck (can be severe when eating or drinking) 

The symptoms occur most often when eating or drinking.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider or dentist will do an exam of your head and neck to
look forÂ one or more enlarged, tender salivary glands. The provider may be
able to find the stone during the exam by feeling under your tongue.

Tests such as x-rays, ultrasound, MRI scan or CT scan of the face are used to
confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

The goal is to remove the stone.

Steps you can take at home include:

    * Drinking lots of water
    * Using sugar-free lemon drops to increase the saliva

Other ways to remove the stone are:

    * Massaging the gland with heat --Â The provider or dentist may be able to push the stone out of the duct. 
    * In some cases, you may need surgery to cut out the stone. 
    * A newer treatment that uses shock waves to break the stone into small pieces is another option.
    * A new technique, called sialoendoscopy, can diagnose and treat stones in the salivary gland duct using very small cameras and instruments.
    * If stones become infected orÂ come backÂ often, you may need surgery to remove the salivary gland. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, salivary duct stones cause only pain or discomfort, and at
times become infected.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of salivary duct stones.

## Alternative Names

Sialolithiasis

## Images

    * ![Head and neck glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9654t.jpg)Head and neck glands

## References

Elluru RG. Physiology of the salivary glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 83.

Jackson NM, Mitchell JL, Walvekar RR. Inflammatory disorders of the salivary
glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 85.

Miller-Thomas M. Diagnostic imaging and fine-needle aspiration of the salivary
glands. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 84.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Salivary Gland
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandDisorder_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

