Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003048.htm    
                                Description: Drooling is saliva flowing outside the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drooling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003048.htm

# Drooling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drooling is saliva flowing outside the mouth.

## Considerations

Drooling is generally caused by:

    * Problems keeping saliva in the mouth
    * Problems with swallowing
    * Too much saliva production 

Some people with drooling problems are at increased risk of breathing saliva,
food, or fluids into the lungs. This may cause harm if there is a problem with
the body's normal reflexes (such as gagging and coughing).

## Causes

Some drooling in infants and toddlers is normal. It may occur with teething.
Drooling in infants and young children may get worse with colds and allergies.

Drooling may happen if your body makes too much saliva. Infections can cause
this, including:

    * Mononucleosis
    * Peritonsillar abscess
    * Strep throat
    * Sinus infections
    * Tonsillitis

Other conditions that can cause too much saliva are:

    * Allergies
    * Heartburn or GERD (reflux)
    * Poisoning (especially by pesticides)
    * Pregnancy (may be due to pregnancy side effects, such as nausea or reflux)
    * Reaction to snake or insect venom
    * Swollen adenoids
    * Use of certain medicines 

Drooling may also be caused by nervous system disorders that make it hard to
swallow. Examples are:

    * Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS
    * Autism
    * Cerebral palsy (CP)
    * Down syndrome
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Parkinson disease
    * Stroke 

## Home Care

Popsicles or other cold objects (such as frozen bagels) may be helpful for
young children who are drooling while teething. Take care to avoid choking
when a child uses any of these objects.

For those with chronic drooling:

    * Caregivers may try reminding the person to keep lips closed and chin up.
    * Limit sugary foods, because they may increase the amount of saliva.
    * Watch for skin breakdown around the lips and on the chin.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * The cause of the drooling has not been diagnosed.
    * There is concern about gagging or choking.
    * A child has a fever, difficulty breathing, or holds their head in a strange position.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam and ask questions about your symptoms and
medical history.

Testing depends on a person's overall health and other symptoms.

A speech therapist can determine if the drooling increases the risk of
breathing in food or fluids into the lungs. This is called aspiration. This
may include information about:

    * How to hold your head
    * Lip and mouth exercises
    * How to encourage you to swallow more often 

Drooling caused by nervous system problems can often be managed with drugs
that reduce saliva production. Different drops, patches, pills or liquid
medicines may be tried.

If you have severe drooling, the provider may recommend:

    * Botox shots
    * Radiation to the salivary glands
    * Surgery to remove the salivary glands 

## Alternative Names

Salivation; Excessive saliva; Too much saliva; Sialorrhea

## Images

    * ![Drooling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17158t.jpg)Drooling

## References

Lee AW, Hess JM. Esophagus, stomach, and duodenum. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 79.

Marques DR, Carroll WE. Neurology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 41.

Melio FR. Upper respiratory tract infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 65.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mouth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MouthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Mouth
Disorders _Read more_

![Salivary Gland
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SalivaryGlandDisorder_thumb.jpg)Salivary
Gland Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

