Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001372.htm    
                                Description: Chagas disease is an illness caused by tiny parasites and spread by insects. The disease is common in South and Central America.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chagas disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001372.htm

# Chagas disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chagas disease is an illness caused by tiny parasites and spread by insects.
The disease is common in South and Central America.

## Causes

Chagas disease is caused by the parasite _Trypanosoma cruzi._ It is spread by
the bite of reduviid bugs, or kissing bugs, and is one of the major health
problems in South America. Due to immigration, the disease also affects people
in the United States.

Risk factors for Chagas disease include:

    * Living in a hut where reduviid bugs live in the walls
    * Living in Central or South America
    * Poverty
    * Receiving a blood transfusion from a person who carries the parasite, but does not have active Chagas disease

## Symptoms

Chagas disease has two phases: acute and chronic. The acute phase may have no
symptoms or very mild symptoms, including:

    * Fever
    * General ill feeling
    * Swelling of an eye if the bite is near the eye
    * Swollen red area at site of the insect bite

After the acute phase, the disease goes into remission. No other symptoms may
appear for many years. When symptoms finally develop, they may include:

    * Constipation 
    * Digestive problems
    * Heart failure
    * Pain in the abdomen
    * Pounding or racing heart
    * Swallowing difficulties

## Exams and Tests

Physical examination can confirm the symptoms. Signs of Chagas disease may
include:

    * Disease of the heart muscle
    * Enlarged liver and spleen
    * Enlarged lymph nodes
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Rapid heartbeat 

Tests include:

    * Blood culture to look for signs of infection
    * Chest x-ray
    * Echocardiogram (uses sound waves to create pictures of the heart)
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG, tests electrical activity in the heart)
    * Enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) to look for signs of infection
    * Blood smear to look for signs of infection 

## Treatment

The acute phase and reactivated Chagas disease should be treated. Infants born
with the infection should also be treated.

Treating the chronic phase is recommended for children and most adults. Adults
with chronic phase Chagas disease should talk to their health care provider to
decide whether treatment is needed.

Two drugs are used to treat this infection: benznidazole and nifurtimox.

Both drugs often have side effects. The side effects may be worse in older
people. They may include:

    * Headaches and dizziness
    * Loss of appetite and weight loss
    * Nerve damage
    * Problems sleeping
    * Skin rashes

## Outlook (Prognosis)

About one third of infected people who are not treated will develop chronic or
symptomatic Chagas disease. It may take more than 20 years from the time of
the original infection to develop heart or digestive problems.

Abnormal heart rhythms may cause sudden death. Once heart failure develops,
death usually occurs within several years.

## Possible Complications

Chagas disease can cause these complications:

    * Enlarged colon
    * Enlarged esophagus with swallowing difficulty
    * Heart disease 
    * Heart failure
    * Malnutrition

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you think you may have Chagas
disease.

## Prevention

Insect control with insecticides and houses that are less likely to have high
insect populations will help control the spread of the disease.

Blood banks in Central and South America screen donors for exposure to the
parasite. The blood is discarded if the donor has the parasite. Most blood
banks in the United States began screening for Chagas disease in 2007.

## Alternative Names

Parasite infection -Â American trypanosomiasis

## Images

    * ![Kissing bug](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1244t.jpg)Kissing bug
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN. Blood and tissue protistans I:
hemoflagellates. In: Bogitsh BJ, Carter CE, Oeltmann TN, eds. _Human
Parasitology_. 5th ed. San Diego, CA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2019:chap 6.

Kirchhoff LV. Trypanosoma species (American trypanosomiasis, Chagas' disease):
biology of trypanosomes. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 278.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chagas
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChagasDisease_thumb.jpg)Chagas Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

