Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ankylosingspondylitis.html    
                                Description: Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis. It causes inflammation between vertebrae and in the joints between spine and pelvis. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Ankylosing Spondylitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/ankylosingspondylitis.html

#  Ankylosing Spondylitis

Also called: Rheumatoid spondylitis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis of the spine. It causes
inflammation between your vertebrae, which are the bones that make up your
spine, and in the joints between your spine and pelvis. In some people, it can
affect other joints.

AS is more common and more severe in men. It often runs in families. The cause
is unknown, but it is likely that both genes and factors in the environment
play a role.

Early symptoms of AS include back pain and stiffness. These problems often
start in late adolescence or early adulthood. Over time, AS can fuse your
vertebrae together, limiting movement. Some people have symptoms that come and
go. Others have severe, ongoing pain.

A diagnosis of AS is based on your medical history and a physical examination.
You may also have imaging or blood tests.

AS has no cure, but medicines can relieve symptoms and may keep the disease
from getting worse. Eating a healthy diet, not smoking, and exercising can
also help. In rare cases, you may need surgery to straighten the spine.

NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disease

## Start Here

    * Ankylosing Spondylitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases)
    * Overview of Ankylosing Spondylitis (Spondylitis Association of America)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Diagnosis of Ankylosing Spondylitis (Spondylitis Association of America)
    * HLA-B27 Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Complementary Treatments for Ankylosing Spondylitis (Spondylitis Association of America)
    * NSAIDs (Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs) (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Spondyloarthritis and Exercise (Spondylitis Association of America)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: ankylosing spondylitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Spondylitis, Ankylosing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The comparative efficacy of supervised- versus home-based exercise programs in patients...
    * Article: The bone mineral density of hip joint was reduced in the...
    * Article: The efficacy and safety of Health Qigong for ankylosing spondylitis: Protocol...
    * Ankylosing Spondylitis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Find a Rheumatologist (American College of Rheumatology)
    * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Spondylitis Web Info for Teens (Spondylitis Association of America)

## Patient Handouts

    * Ankylosing spondylitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * HLA-B27 antigen (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Ankylosing
Spondylitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkylosingSpondylitis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Ankylosing spondylitis
    * HLA-B27 antigen
    * Lumbar MRI scan
    * Pelvis x-ray
    * Uveitis

## Related Health Topics

    * Rheumatoid Arthritis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Ankylosing Spondylitis is the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

