Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000429.htm    
                                Description: Scleroderma is a disease that involves the buildup of scar-like tissue in the skin and elsewhere in the body. It also damages the cells that line the walls of small arteries.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scleroderma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000429.htm

# Scleroderma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scleroderma is a disease that involves the buildup of scar-like tissue in the
skin and elsewhere in the body. It also damages the cells that line the walls
of small arteries.

## Causes

Scleroderma is a type of autoimmune disorder. In this condition, the immune
system mistakenly attacks and damages healthy body tissue.

The cause of scleroderma is unknown. A buildup of a substance called collagen
in the skin and other organs leads to the symptoms of the disease.

The disease most often affects people ages 30 to 50 years. Women get
scleroderma more often than men. Some people with scleroderma have a history
of being around silica dust and polyvinyl chloride, but most do not.

Widespread scleroderma can occur with other autoimmune diseases, including
systemic lupus erythematosus and polymyositis. These cases are referred to as
undifferentiated connective tissue disease or overlap syndrome.

## Symptoms

Some types of scleroderma affect only the skin, while others affect the whole
body.

    * Localized scleroderma, (also called morphea) -- Often affects only the skin on the chest, abdomen, or limb but not usually on the hands and face. Morphea develops slowly, and rarely spreads in the body or causes serious problems such as internal organ damage.
    * Systemic scleroderma, or sclerosis -- May affect large areas of skin and organs such as the heart, lungs, or kidneys. There are two main types, limited disease (CREST syndrome) and diffuse disease. 

Skin signs of scleroderma may include:

    * Fingers or toes that turn blue or white in response to cold temperatures (Raynaud phenomenon)
    * Stiffness and tightness of skin of fingers, hands, forearm, and face
    * Hair loss
    * Skin that is darker or lighter than normal
    * Small white lumps of calcium beneath the skin that sometimes ooze a white substance that looks like toothpaste
    * Sores (ulcers) on the fingertips or toes
    * Tight and mask-like skin on the face 
    * Telangiectasias, which are small, widened blood vessels visible beneath the surface on the face or at the edge of fingernails

Bone and muscle symptoms may include:

    * Joint pain, stiffness, and swelling, resulting in loss of motion. The hands are often involved due to fibrosis around tissue and tendons.
    * Numbness and pain in the feet.

Breathing problems may result from scarring in the lungs and can include:

    * Dry cough
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing
    * Increased risk for lung cancer

Digestive tract problems may include:

    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Esophageal reflux or heartburn
    * Bloating after meals
    * Constipation
    * Diarrhea
    * Problems controlling stools 

Heart problems may include:

    * Abnormal heart rhythm
    * Fluid around the heart
    * Fibrosis in heart muscle, decreasing heart function

Kidney and genitourinary problems may include:

    * Development of kidney failure
    * Erectile dysfunction in men
    * Vaginal dryness in women

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a complete physical exam. The exam may show:

    * Tight, thick skin on the fingers, the face or elsewhere.
    * The skin at the edge of the fingernails may be looked at with a lighted magnifying glass for abnormalities of the small blood vessels.
    * The lungs, heart and abdomen will be examined for abnormalities. 

Your blood pressure will be checked. Scleroderma can cause small blood vessels
in the kidneys to become narrowed. Problems with your kidneys can lead to high
blood pressure and decrease function of the kidney.

Blood and urine tests may include:

    * Antinuclear antibody (ANA) panel
    * Scleroderma antibody testing
    * ESR (sed rate)
    * Rheumatoid factor
    * Complete blood count
    * Metabolic panel, including creatinine
    * Heart muscle tests
    * Urinalysis

Other tests may include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the lungs
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Echocardiogram
    * Tests to see how well your lungs and gastrointestinal (GI) tract are working
    * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for scleroderma. Your provider will assess the
extent of disease in the skin, lungs, kidneys, heart, and gastrointestinal
tract.

People with diffuse skin disease (rather than limited skin involvement) may be
more prone to progressive and internal organ disease. This form of the disease
is classified as diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (dcSSc). Body wide
(systemic) treatments are most often used for this group of patients.

You will be prescribed medicines and other treatments to control your symptoms
and prevent complications.

Medicines used to treat progressive scleroderma include:

    * Corticosteroids such as prednisone. However, doses above 10 mg per day are not recommended because higher doses may trigger kidney disease and high blood pressure.
    * Drugs that suppress the immune system such as mycophenolate, cyclophosphamide, cyclosporine or methotrexate.
    * Hydroxychloroquine to treat arthritis.

Some people with rapidly progressive scleroderma may be candidates for
autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). This type of
treatment needs to be performed in specialized centers.

Other treatments for specific symptoms may include:

    * Treatments to improve Raynaud phenomenon.
    * Medicines for heartburn or swallowing problems, such as omeprazole.
    * Blood pressure medicines, such as ACE inhibitors, for high blood pressure or kidney problems.
    * Light therapy to relieve skin thickening.
    * Medicines to improve lung function, such as bosentan and sildenafil.

Treatment often involves physical therapy as well.

## Support Groups

Some people can benefit from attending a support group for people with
scleroderma.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In some people, symptoms develop quickly for the first few years and continue
to get worse. However, in most people, the disease gets worse slowly.

People who have only skin symptoms have a better outlook. Widespread
(systemic) scleroderma can lead to.

    * Heart failure
    * Scarring of the lungs, called pulmonary fibrosis
    * High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension)
    * Kidney failure (scleroderma renal crisis)
    * Problems absorbing nutrients from food
    * Cancer

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop Raynaud phenomenon, progressive thickening
of the skin, or trouble swallowing.

## Alternative Names

Progressive systemic sclerosis; Systemic sclerosis; Limited scleroderma; CREST
syndrome; Localized scleroderma; Morphea - linear; Raynaud's phenomenon -
scleroderma

## Images

    * ![Raynaud's phenomenon](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17127t.jpg)Raynaud's phenomenon
    * ![CREST syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19507t.jpg)CREST syndrome
    * ![Sclerodactyly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19508t.jpg)Sclerodactyly
    * ![Telangiectasia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19509t.jpg)Telangiectasia

## References

Herrick AL, Pan X, Peytrignet S, et al. Treatment outcome in early diffuse
cutaneous systemic sclerosis: the European Scleroderma Observational Study
(ESOS). _Ann Rheum Dis_. 2017; 76:1207. PMID: 28188239
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28188239.

Sullivan KM, Goldmuntz EA, Keyes-Elstein L, et al. Myeloablative autologous
stem-cell transplantation for severe scleroderma. _N Engl J Med_. 2018;
378(1):35-47. PMID: 29298160 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29298160.

Varga J. Etiology and pathogenesis of scleroderma. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 83.

Varga J. Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma). In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 267.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Scleroderma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scleroderma_thumb.jpg)Scleroderma
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

