Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001191.htm    
                                Description: Infertility means you cannot get pregnant (conceive).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Infertility

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001191.htm

# Infertility

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Infertility means you cannot get pregnant (conceive).

There areÂ 2 types of infertility:

    * Primary infertility refers to couples who have not become pregnant after at least 1 year having sex without using birth control methods.
    * Secondary infertility refers to couples who have been able to get pregnant at least once, but now are unable. 

## Causes

Many physical and emotional factors can cause infertility. It may be due to
problems in the woman, man, or both.

FEMALE INFERTILITY

Female infertility may occur when:

    * A fertilized egg or embryo does not survive once it attaches to the lining of the womb (uterus).
    * The fertilized egg does not attach to the lining of the uterus.
    * The eggs cannot move from the ovaries to the womb.
    * The ovaries have problems producing eggs. 

Female infertility may be caused by:

    * Autoimmune disorders, such as antiphospholipid syndrome (APS)
    * Birth defects that affect the reproductive tract
    * Cancer or tumor
    * Clotting disorders
    * Diabetes
    * Drinking too much alcohol
    * Exercising too much
    * Eating disorders or poor nutrition
    * Growths (such as fibroids or polyps) in the uterus and cervix
    * Medicines such as chemotherapy drugs
    * Hormone imbalances
    * Being overweight or underweight
    * Older age
    * Ovarian cysts and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
    * Pelvic infection resulting in scarring or swelling of fallopian tubes (hydrosalpinx)Â or pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)
    * Scarring from sexually transmitted infection, abdominal surgery or endometriosis
    * Smoking
    * Surgery to prevent pregnancy (tubal ligation) or failure of tubal ligation reversal (reanastomosis)
    * Thyroid disease 

MALE INFERTILITY

Male infertility may be due to:

    * Decreased number of sperm
    * Blockage that prevents the sperm from being released
    * Defects in the sperm 

Male infertility can be caused by:

    * Birth defects
    * Cancer treatments, including chemotherapy and radiation
    * Exposure to high heat for prolonged periods
    * Heavy use of alcohol, marijuana, or cocaine
    * Hormone imbalance
    * Impotence
    * Infection
    * Medicines such as cimetidine, spironolactone, and nitrofurantoin
    * Obesity
    * Older age
    * Retrograde ejaculation
    * Scarring from sexually transmitted infections (STIs), injury, or surgery
    * Smoking
    * Toxins in the environment
    * Vasectomy or failure of vasectomy reversal
    * History of testicular infection from mumps

Healthy couples under age 30 who have sex regularly will have about a 20% per
month chance of getting pregnant each month.

A woman is most fertile in her early 20s. The chance a woman can get pregnant
drops greatly after age 35 (and especially after age 40). The age when
fertility starts to decline varies from woman to woman.

Infertility problems and miscarriage rates increase significantly after 35
years of age. There are now options for early egg retrieval and storage for
women in their 20's. This will help ensure a successful pregnancy if
childbearing is delayed until after age 35. This is an expensive option.
However, women who know they will need to delay childbearing may consider it.

## Exams and Tests

Deciding when to get treated for infertility depends on your age. Health care
providers suggest that women under 30 try to get pregnant on their own for 1
year before getting tested.

Women over 35 should try to get pregnant for 6 months. If it does not occur
within that time, they should talk to their provider.

Infertility testing involves a medical history and physical exam for both
partners.

Blood and imaging tests are most often needed. In women, these may include:

    * Blood tests to check hormone levels, including progesterone and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)
    * Home urine ovulation detection kits
    * Measurement of body temperature every morning to see if the ovaries are releasing eggs
    * FSH and clomid challenge test
    * Antimullerian hormone testing (AMH)
    * Hysterosalpingography (HSG)
    * Pelvic ultrasound
    * Laparoscopy
    * Thyroid function tests 

Tests in men may include:

    * Sperm testing
    * Exam of the testes and penis
    * Ultrasound of the male genitals (sometimes done)
    * Blood tests to check hormone levels
    * Testicular biopsy (rarely done) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of infertility. It may involve:

    * Education and counseling about the condition
    * Fertility treatments such as intrauterine insemination (IUI) and in vitro fertilization (IVF)
    * Medicines to treat infections and clotting disorders
    * Medicines that help the growth and release of eggs from the ovaries 

Couples can increase the chances of becoming pregnant each month by having sex
at least every 2 days before and during ovulation.

Ovulation occurs about 2 weeks before the next menstrual cycle (period)
starts. Therefore, if a woman gets her period every 28 days the couple should
have sex at least every 2 days between the 10th and 18th day after her period
starts.

Having sex before ovulation occurs is especially helpful.

    * Sperm can live inside a woman's body for at least 2 days.
    * However, a woman's egg can only be fertilized by the sperm within 12 to 24 hours after it is released. 

Women who are under or overweight may increase their chances of becoming
pregnant by getting to a healthier weight.

## Support Groups

Many people find it helpful to take part in support groups for people with
similar concerns. You can ask your provider to recommend local groups.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

As many as 1 in 5 couples diagnosed with infertility eventually become
pregnant without treatment.

Most couples with infertility become pregnant after treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are not able to get pregnant.

## Prevention

Preventing STIs, such as gonorrhea and chlamydia, may reduce your risk of
infertility.

Maintaining a healthy diet, weight, and lifestyle may increase your chance of
getting pregnant and having a healthy pregnancy.

Avoiding the use of lubricants during sex may help improve sperm function.

## Alternative Names

Inability to conceive; Unable to get pregnant

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Primary infertility](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17074t.jpg)Primary infertility
    * ![Sperm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19471t.jpg)Sperm

## References

Barak S, Gordon Baker HW. Clinical management of male infertility. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 141.

Broekmans FJ, Fauser BCJM. Female infertility: evaluation and management. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Catherino WH. Reproductive endocrinology and infertility.In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 223.

Lobo RA. Infertility: etiology, diagnostic evaluation, management, prognosis.
In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

Practice Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine.
Diagnostic evaluation of the infertile female: a committee opinion. _Fertil
Steril_. 2015;103(6):e44-e50. PMID: 25936238
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25936238.

Practice Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine.
Diagnostic evaluation of the infertile male: a committee opinion. _Fertil
Steril_. 2015;103(3):e18-e25. PMID: 25597249
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25597249.

## Review Date 1/27/2020

Updated by: LaQuita Martinez, MD, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Emory Johns Creek Hospital, Alpharetta, GA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infertility_thumb.jpg)Infertility
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

