Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000206.htm    
                                Description: A peptic ulcer is an open sore or raw area in the lining of the stomach or intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peptic ulcer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000206.htm

# Peptic ulcer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A peptic ulcer is an open sore or raw area in the lining of the stomach or
intestine.

There are two types of peptic ulcers:

    * Gastric ulcer -- occurs in the stomach
    * Duodenal ulcer -- occurs in the first part of the small intestine 
![Location of peptic
ulcers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19249.jpg)

## Causes

Normally, the lining of the stomach and small intestines can protect itself
against strong stomach acids. But if the lining breaks down, the result may
be:

    * Swollen and inflamed tissue (gastritis)
    * An ulcer 

![Stomach ulcer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200090t.gif)Watch
this video about:Stomach ulcer

Most ulcers occur in the first layer of the inner lining. A hole in the
stomach or duodenum is called a perforation. This is a medical emergency.

![Ulcer emergencies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19235.jpg)

The most common cause of ulcers is infection of the stomach by bacteria called
_Helicobacter pylori_ ( _H pylori_ ). Most people with peptic ulcers have
these bacteria living in their digestive tract. Yet, many people who have
these bacteria in their stomach do not develop an ulcer.

The following factors raise your risk for peptic ulcers:

    * Drinking too much alcohol
    * Regular use of aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
    * Smoking cigarettes or chewing tobacco
    * Being very ill, such as being on a breathing machine
    * Radiation treatments
    * Stress 

A rare condition called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome causes stomach and duodenal
ulcers.

![Cause of peptic
ulcers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19253.jpg)

## Symptoms

Small ulcers may not cause any symptoms. Some ulcers can cause serious
bleeding.

Abdominal pain (often in the upper mid-abdomen) is a common symptom. The pain
can differ from person to person. Some people have no pain.

Pain occurs:

    * In the upper abdomen
    * At night and wakes you up
    * When you feel an empty stomach, often 1 to 3 hours after a meal

Other symptoms include:

    * Feeling of fullness and problems drinking as much fluid as usual
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Bloody or dark, tarry stools
    * Chest pain
    * Fatigue
    * Vomiting, possibly bloody
    * Weight loss
    * Ongoing heartburn

## Exams and Tests

To detect an ulcer, you may need a test called an upper endoscopy (EGD).

    * This is a test to check the lining of the food pipe, stomach, and first part of the small intestine.
    * It is done with a small camera (flexible endoscope) that is inserted down the throat.
    * This test most often requires sedation given through a vein.
    * In some cases, a smaller endoscope may be used that is passed into the stomach through the nose. This does not require sedation. 
![Gastroscopy
procedure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19243.jpg)

EGD is done on most people when peptic ulcers are suspected or when you have:

    * Low blood count (anemia)
    * Trouble swallowing
    * Bloody vomit
    * Bloody or dark and tarry-looking stools
    * Lost weight without trying
    * Other findings that raise a concern for cancer in the stomach

Testing for H pylori is also needed.Â This may be done by biopsy of the
stomach during endoscopy or by a urea breath test.

Other tests you may have include:

    * Hemoglobin blood test to check for anemia
    * Stool occult blood test to test for blood in your stool 

Sometimes, you may need a test called an upper GI series. A series of x-rays
are taken after you drink a thick substance called barium. This does not
require sedation.

## Treatment

Your health care provider will recommend medicines to heal your ulcer and
prevent a relapse. The medicines will:

    * Kill the _H pylori_ bacteria, if present.
    * Reduce acid levels in the stomach. These include H2 blockers such as ranitidine (Zantac), or a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) such as pantoprozole.

Take all of your medicines as you have been told. Other changes in your
lifestyle can also help.

If you have a peptic ulcer with an _H pylori_ infection, the standard
treatment uses different combinations of the following medicines for 7 to 14
days:

    * Two different antibiotics to kill _H pylori._
    * PPIs such as omeprazole (Prilosec), lansoprazole (Prevacid), or esomeprazole (Nexium).
    * Bismuth (the main ingredient in Pepto-Bismol) may be added to help kill the bacteria.

You will likely need to take a PPI for 8 weeks if:

    * You have an ulcer without an _H pylori_ infection.
    * Your ulcer is caused by taking aspirin or NSAIDs.

Your provider may also prescribe this type of medicine regularly if you
continue taking aspirin or NSAIDs for other health conditions.

Other medicines used for ulcers are:

    * Misoprostol, a medicine that may help prevent ulcers in people who take NSAIDs on a regular basis
    * Medicines that protect the tissue lining, such as sucralfate

If a peptic ulcer bleeds a lot, an EGD may be needed to stop the bleeding.
Methods used to stop the bleeding include:

    * Injecting medicine in the ulcer
    * Applying metal clips or heat therapy to the ulcer 

Surgery may be needed if:

    * Bleeding cannot be stopped with an EGD
    * The ulcer has caused a tear 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Peptic ulcers tend to come back if untreated. There is a good chance that the
_H pylori_ infection will be cured if you take your medicines and follow your
provider's advice. You will be much less likely to get another ulcer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Severe blood loss
    * Scarring from an ulcer may make it harder for the stomach to empty
    * Perforation or hole of the stomach and intestines 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if you:

    * Develop sudden, sharp abdominal pain
    * Have a rigid, hard abdomen that is tender to touch
    * Have symptoms of shock, such as fainting, excessive sweating, or confusion
    * Vomit blood or have blood in your stool (especially if it is maroon or dark, tarry black) 

Call your provider if:

    * You feel dizzy or lightheaded.
    * You have ulcer symptoms.

## Prevention

Avoid aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, and other NSAIDs. Try acetaminophen
instead. If you must take such medicines, talk to your provider first. Your
provider may:

    * Test you for _H pylori_ before you take these medicines
    * Ask you to take PPIs or an H2 acid blocker
    * Prescribe a medicine called misoprostol 

The following lifestyle changes may help prevent peptic ulcers:

    * DO NOT smoke or chew tobacco.
    * Avoid alcohol. 

## Alternative Names

Ulcer - peptic; Ulcer - duodenal; Ulcer - gastric; Duodenal ulcer; Gastric
ulcer; Dyspepsia - ulcers; Bleeding ulcer; Gastrointestinal bleeding - peptic
ulcer; Gastrointestinal hemorrhage - peptic ulcer; G.I. bleed - peptic ulcer;
H. pylori - peptic ulcer; Helicobacter pylori - peptic ulcer

## Patient Instructions

    * Taking antacids

## Images

    * ![Ulcer emergencies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19235t.jpg)Ulcer emergencies
    * ![Gastroscopy procedure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19243t.jpg)Gastroscopy procedure
    * ![Location of peptic ulcers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19249t.jpg)Location of peptic ulcers
    * ![Cause of peptic ulcers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19253t.jpg)Cause of peptic ulcers
    * ![Stomach disease or trauma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8945t.jpg)Stomach disease or trauma

## References

Chan FKL, Lau JYW. Peptic ulcer disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 53.

Ford AC, Gurusamy KS, Delaney B, Forman D, Moayyedi P. Eradication therapy for
peptic ulcer disease in Helicobacter pylori-positive people. _Cochrane
Database Syst Rev_. 2016;4:CD003840. PMID: 27092708
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27092708.

Gurusamy KS, Pallari E. Medical versus surgical treatment for refractory or
recurrent peptic ulcer. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2016;3:CD011523. PMID:
27025289 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27025289.

Lanas A, Chan FKL. Peptic ulcer disease. _Lancet_. 2017;390(10094):613-624.
PMID: 28242110 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28242110.

Morgan DR, Crowe SE. Helicobacter pylori infection. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Internal
review and update on 07/12/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peptic Ulcer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PepticUlcer_thumb.jpg)Peptic
Ulcer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

