Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000325.htm    
                                Description: Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a condition in which the body produces too much of the hormone gastrin. Most of the time, a small tumor (gastrinoma) in the pancreas or small intestine is the source of the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Zollinger-Ellison syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000325.htm

# Zollinger-Ellison syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a condition in which the body produces too much
of the hormone gastrin. Most of the time, a small tumor (gastrinoma) in the
pancreas or small intestine is the source of the extra gastrin in the blood.

## Causes

Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is caused by tumors. These growths are most often
found in the head of the pancreas and the upper small intestine. The tumors
are called gastrinomas. High levels of gastrin cause production of too much
stomach acid.

Gastrinomas occur as single tumors or several tumors. One half to two thirds
of single gastrinomas are cancerous (malignant) tumors. These tumors often
spread to the liver and nearby lymph nodes.

Many people with gastrinomas have several tumors as part of a condition called
multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN I). Tumors may develop in the
pituitary gland (brain) and parathyroid gland (neck) as well as in the
pancreas.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Diarrhea
    * Vomiting blood (sometimes) 
    * Severe esophageal reflux (GERD) symptoms

Signs include ulcers in the stomach and small intestine.

## Exams and Tests

Tests include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Calcium infusion test
    * Endoscopic ultrasound
    * Exploratory surgery
    * Gastrin blood level
    * Octreotide scan
    * Secretin stimulation test

## Treatment

Drugs called proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, lansoprazole, and others) are
used for treating this problem. These drugs reduce acid production by the
stomach. This helps the ulcers in the stomach and small intestine heal. These
medicines also relieve abdominal pain and diarrhea.

Surgery to remove a single gastrinoma may be done if the tumors have not
spread to other organs. Surgery on the stomach (gastrectomy) to control acid
production is rarely needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The cure rate is low, even when it is found early and the tumor is removed.
However, gastrinomas grow slowly. People with this condition may live for many
years after the tumor is found. Acid-suppressing medicines work well to
control the symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Failure to locate the tumor during surgery
    * Intestinal bleeding or hole (perforation) from ulcers in the stomach or duodenum
    * Severe diarrhea and weight loss
    * Spread of the tumor to other organs 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have severe abdominal pain that does not
go away, especially if it occurs with diarrhea.

## Alternative Names

Z-E syndrome; Gastrinoma

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Jensen RT, Norton JA, Oberg K. Neuroendocrine tumors. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

Vella A. Gastrointestinal hormones and gut endocrine tumors. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/24/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

