Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007501.htm    
                                Description: Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) is the bacteria (germ) responsible for most stomach (gastric) and duodenal ulcers and many cases of stomach inflammation (chronic gastritis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tests for H pylori

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007501.htm

# Tests for H pylori

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

_Helicobacter pylori_ ( _H pylori_ ) is the bacteria (germ) responsible for
most stomach (gastric) and duodenal ulcers and many cases of stomach
inflammation (chronic gastritis).

## How the Test is Performed

There are several methods to test for _H pylori_ infection.

 **Breath Test (Carbon Isotope-urea Breath Test, or UBT)**

    * Up to 2 weeks before the test, you need to stop taking antibiotics, bismuth medicines such as Pepto-Bismol, and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs).
    * During the test, you swallow a special substance that has urea. Urea is a waste product the body produces as it breaks down protein. The urea used in the test has been made harmlessly radioactive.
    * If _H pylori_ are present, the bacteria convert the urea into carbon dioxide, which is detected and recorded in your exhaled breath after 10 minutes.
    * This test can identify almost all people who have _H pylori_. It can also be used to check that the infection has been fully treated. 

**Blood Tests**

    * Blood tests are used to measure antibodies to _H pylori_. Antibodies are proteins made by the body's immune system when it detects harmful substances such as bacteria.
    * Blood tests for _H pylori_ can only tell if your body has _H pylori_ antibodies. It cannot tell if you have a current infection or how long you have had it. This is because the test can be positive for years, even if the infection is cured. As a result, blood tests cannot be used to see if the infection has been cured after treatment. 

**Stool Test**

    * A stool test can detect traces of _H pylori_ in the feces.
    * This test can be used to diagnose the infection and confirm that it has been cured after treatment. 

**Biopsy**

    * A tissue sample, called a biopsy, is taken from the stomach lining. This is the most accurate way to tell if you have an _H pylori_ infection.
    * To remove the tissue sample, you have a procedure called endoscopy. The procedure is done in the hospital or outpatient center.
    * Usually, a biopsy is done if endoscopy is needed for other reasons. Reasons include diagnosing the ulcer, treating bleeding, or making sure there is no cancer. 

## Why the Test is Performed

Testing is most often done to diagnose _H pylori_ infection:

    * If you currently have a stomach or duodenal ulcer
    * If you had a stomach or duodenal ulcer in the past, and were never tested for _H pylori_
    * After treatment for _H pylori_ infection, to make sure there are no more bacteria 

Testing may also be done if you need to take long-term ibuprofen or other
NSAID medicines. Your health care provider can tell you more.

The test may also be recommended for a condition called dyspepsia
(indigestion). This is upper abdominal discomfort. Symptoms include a feeling
of fullness or of heat, burning, or pain in the area between the navel and the
lower part of the breastbone during or after eating. Testing for _H pylori_
without endoscopy is most often done only when the discomfort is new, the
person is younger than 55, and there are no other symptoms.

## Normal Results

Normal results mean there is no sign that you have an _H pylori_ infection.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean that you have an _H pylori_ infection. Your provider
will discuss treatment with you.

## Alternative Names

Peptic ulcer disease - _H pylori_ ; PUD - _H pylori_

## References

Cover TL, Blaser MJ. Helicobacter pylori and other gastric Helicobacter
species. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 217.

Morgan DR, Crowe SE. Heliobacter pylori infection. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 7/13/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Helicobacter Pylori
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HelicobacterPyloriInfections_thumb.jpg)Helicobacter
Pylori Infections _Read more_

![Peptic Ulcer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PepticUlcer_thumb.jpg)Peptic
Ulcer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

