Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001947.htm    
                                Description:  The Affordable Care Act (ACA) came into effect on September 23, 2010. It included certain rights and protections for consumers.These rights and protections help make health care coverage more fair and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Consumer rights and protections

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001947.htm

# Consumer rights and protections

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Affordable Care Act (ACA) came into effect on September 23, 2010. It
included certain rights and protections for consumers.These rights and
protections help make health care coverage more fair and easy to understand.

These rights must be provided by insurance plans in the Health Insurance
Marketplace as well as most other types of health insurance.

Certain rights may not be covered by some health plans, such as grandfathered
health plans. A grandfathered plan is an individual health insurance policy
purchased on or before March 23, 2010.

Always check your health plan benefits to be sure what type of coverage you
have.

## Information

**RIGHTS AND PROTECTIONS**

Here are ways that the health care law protects consumers.

 **You must be covered, even if you have a pre-existing condition.**

    * No insurance plan can reject you, charge you more, or refuse to pay for essential health benefits for any condition you had before your coverage started.
    * Once you're enrolled, the plan can't deny you coverage or raise your rates based only on your health.
    * Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) also can't refuse to cover you or charge you more because of your pre-existing condition.

 **You have a right to receive free preventive care.**

    * Health plans must cover certain types of care to adults and children without charging you a copayment or coinsurance.
    * Preventive care includes blood pressure screening, colorectal screening, immunizations, and other types of preventive care.
    * This care must be provided by a doctor who participates with your health plan.

 **You have a right to stay on your parent's health plan if you are under 26
years old.**

Generally, you can join a parent's plan and stay on until you turn 26, even if
you:

    * Get married
    * Have or adopt a child
    * Start or leave school
    * Live in or out of your parent's home
    * Aren't claimed as a tax dependent
    * Turn down an offer of job-based coverage

 **Insurance companies can't limit yearly or lifetime coverage of essential
benefits.**

Under this right, insurance companies can't set a limit on the money spent on
essential benefits the entire time you are enrolled in the plan.

Essential health benefits are 10 types of services that health insurance plans
must cover. Some plans cover more services, others may vary a bit by state.
Check your health plan benefits to see what your plan covers.

Essential health benefits include:

    * Outpatient care
    * Emergency services
    * Hospitalization
    * Pregnancy, maternity and newborn care
    * Mental health and substance use disorder services
    * Prescriptions drugs
    * Rehabilitative services and devices
    * Management of chronic disease
    * Laboratory services
    * Preventive care
    * Disease management
    * Dental and vision care for children (adult vision and dental care are not included)

 **You have the right to receive easy-to-understand information about your
health benefits.**

Insurance companies must provide:

    * A short Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) written in easy-to-understand language
    * A glossary of terms used in medical care and health coverage

You can use this information to more easily compare plans.

 **You are protected from unreasonable insurance rate increases.**

These rights are protected through Rate Review and the 80/20 rule.

Rate Review means that an insurance company must publicly explain any rate
increase of 10% or more before increasing your premium.

The 80/20 rule requires insurance companies to spend at least 80% of the money
they take in from premiums on health care costs and quality improvement. If
the company fails to do so, you may get a rebate from the company. This
applies to all health insurance plans, even those that are grandfathered

 **You can't be denied coverage because you made a mistake on your
application.**

This applies to simple clerical mistakes or leaving off information not needed
for coverage. Coverage can be cancelled in the case of fraud or unpaid or late
premiums.

 **You have the right to choose a primary care provider (PCP) from the health
plan network.**

You don't need a referral from your PCP to receive care from an
obstetrician/gynecologist. You also don't have to pay more to receive
emergency care outside of your plan's network.

 **You are protected against employer retaliation.**

Your employer cannot fire you or retaliate against you:

    * If you receive a premium tax credit from buying a marketplace health plan
    * If you report violations against Affordable Care Act reforms

 **You have the right to appeal a health insurance company decision.**

If your health plan denies or ends coverage, you have a right to know why and
to appeal that decision. Health plans must tell you how you can appeal their
decisions. If a situation is urgent, your plan must deal with it in a timely
manner.

 **ADDITIONAL RIGHTS**

Health plans in the Health Insurance Marketplace and most employer health
plans must also provide:

    * Breastfeeding equipment and counseling to pregnant and nursing women
    * Contraceptive methods and counseling (exceptions are made for religious employers and non-profit religious organizations)

## Alternative Names

Health care consumer rights; Rights of the health care consumer

## Images

    * ![Types of health care providers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9364t.jpg)Types of health care providers

## References

American Cancer Society website. Patient's Bill of Rights.
www.cancer.org/treatment/finding-and-paying-for-treatment/understanding-
financial-and-legal-matters/patients-bill-of-rights.html. Updated May 24,
2016. Accessed April 3, 2018.

CMS.gov website. Health insurance market reforms. www.cms.gov/CCIIO/Programs-
and-Initiatives/Health-Insurance-Market-Reforms/index.html. Accessed April 3,
2018.

Healthcare.gov website. Health insurance rights and protections.
www.healthcare.gov/health-care-law-protections/rights-and-protections/.
Accessed April 3, 2018.

Healthcare.gov website. What Marketplace health insurance plans cover.
www.healthcare.gov/coverage/what-marketplace-plans-cover/. Accessed April 3,
2018.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Patient
Rights](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PatientRights_thumb.jpg)Patient Rights
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

