Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000445.htm    
                                Description: You have the right to help decide what medical care is best for you. By law, your health care providers must explain your health condition and treatment choices to you.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Informed consent - adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000445.htm

# Informed consent - adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have the right to help decide what medical care is best for you. By law,
your health care providers must explain your health condition and treatment
choices to you.

Informed consent means:

    * You are informed. You have received information about your health condition and treatment options.
    * You understand your health condition and treatment options.
    * You are able to decide what health care treatment you want to receive and give your consent to receive it. 

To obtain your informed consent, your provider may talk with you about the
treatment. Then you will read a description of it and sign a form. This is
written informed consent.

Or, your provider may explain a treatment to you. They will ask if you agree
to have the treatment. Not all medical treatments require written informed
consent.

## What Treatments Need Informed Consent?

Medical procedures that may require you to give written informed consent
include:

    * Most surgeries, even when they are not done in the hospital
    * Other advanced or complex medical tests and procedures, such as an endoscopy (placing a tube down your throat to look at the inside of your stomach) or a needle biopsy of the liver
    * Radiation or chemotherapy to treat cancer
    * Most vaccines
    * Some blood tests, such as HIV testing (need for written consent varies by state) 

## What Should Occur During the Informed Consent Process?

When asking for your informed consent, your doctor or other health care
provider must explain:

    * If treatment is necessary now or if it can wait
    * Your health problem and the reason for the treatment
    * What happens during the treatment
    * The risks of the treatment and how likely they are to occur
    * How likely the treatment is to work
    * Other options for treating your health problem
    * Risks or possible side effects that may happen later on 

You should have enough information to make a decision about your treatment.
Your provider should also make sure you understand the information. One way a
provider may do this is by asking you to repeat the information back in your
own words.

If you would like more details about your treatment choices, ask your provider
where to look. There are many trusted websites and other resources your
provider can give you.

## What is Your Role in the Informed Consent Process?

You are an important member of your health care team. You should ask questions
about anything you do not understand. If you need your provider to explain
something in a different way, ask them to do so.

You have the right to refuse treatment if you are able to understand your
health condition, your treatment options, and the risks and benefits of each
option. Your doctor or other health care provider may tell you they do not
think this is the best choice for you. But, your providers should not try to
force you to have a treatment you do not want to have.

It is important to be involved in the informed consent process. After all, you
are the one who will receive the treatment if you give your consent.

## Other Tips

Informed consent is not needed in an emergency when delayed treatment would be
dangerous.

Some people are no longer able to make an informed decision, such as someone
with advanced Alzheimer disease or someone in a coma. In both cases, the
person would not be able to understand information to decide what medical care
they want. In these types of situations, the provider would try to obtain
informed consent for treatment from a surrogate, or substitute decision-maker.

Even when your provider does not ask for your written consent, you should
still be told what tests or treatments are being done and why. For example:

    * Before they have the test, men should know the pros, cons, and the reasons for a PSA blood test that screens for prostate cancer.
    * Women should know the pros, cons, and the reasons for a Pap test, a mammogram, or other tests.
    * Anyone who is being tested for an infection that occurs after sexual contact should be told about the test and why they are being tested. 

## References

Emanuel EJ. Bioethics in the practice of medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 2.

United States Department of Health and Human Services website. Informed
consent. www.hhs.gov/ohrp/regulations-and-policy/guidance/informed-
consent/index.html. Accessed January 2, 2018.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Patient Rights

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

