Link: https://medlineplus.gov/progressivesupranuclearpalsy.html    
                                Description: Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare brain disease. It causes problems with balance, eye movement, and walking. Learn about what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Progressive Supranuclear Palsy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/progressivesupranuclearpalsy.html

#  Progressive Supranuclear Palsy

Also called: PSP, Richardson-Steele-Olszewski syndrome, Steele-Richardson-
Olszewski syndrome

## Summary

### What is progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)?

Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare brain disease. It happens
because of damage to nerve cells in the brain. PSP affects your movement,
including control of your walking and balance. It also affects your thinking
and eye movement.

PSP is progressive, which means that it gets worse over time.

### What causes progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)?

The cause of PSP is unknown. In rare cases, the cause is a mutation in a
certain gene.

One sign of PSP is abnormal clumps of tau in nerve cells in the brain. Tau is
a protein in your nervous system, including in nerve cells. Some other
diseases also cause a buildup of tau in the brain, including Alzheimer's
disease.

### Who is at risk for progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)?

PSP usually affects people over 60, but in some cases it can start earlier. It
is more common in men.

### What are the symptoms of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)?

Symptoms are very different in each person, but they may include

    * A loss of balance while walking. This is often the first symptom.
    * Speech problems
    * Trouble swallowing
    * A blurring of vision and problems controlling eye movement
    * Changes in mood and behavior, including depression and apathy (a loss of interest and enthusiasm)
    * Mild dementia

### How is progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP0 diagnosed?

There is no specific test for PSP. It can be difficult to diagnose, because
the symptoms are similar to other diseases such as Parkinson's disease and
Alzheimer's disease.

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will take your medical history
and do physical and neurological exams. You may have an MRI or other imaging
tests.

### What are the treatments for progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP)?

There is currently no effective treatment for PSP. Medicines may reduce some
symptoms. Some non-drug treatments, such as walking aids and special glasses,
may also help. People with severe swallowing problems may need gastrostomy.
This is a surgery to insert a feeding tube into the stomach.

PSP gets worse over time. Many people become severely disabled within three to
five years after getting it. PSP isn't life-threatening on its own. It can
still be be dangerous, because it increases your risk of pneumonia, choking
from swallowing problems, and injuries from falling. But with good attention
to medical and nutritional needs, many people with PSP can live 10 or more
years after the first symptoms of the disease.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Learn More

    * Progressive supranuclear palsy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Progressive Supranuclear Palsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Progressive Supranuclear Palsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP): Frequently Asked Questions (Foundation for PSP/CBD and Related Brain Diseases)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: progressive supranuclear palsy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Supranuclear Palsy, Progressive ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Contribution of the Mesencephalon Indices to Differential Diagnosis of Parkinsonian Disorders.
    * Article: Exercise and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy: the need for explicit exercise reporting.
    * Article: Diffusion Tensor MRI to Distinguish Progressive Supranuclear Palsy from Î±-Synucleinopathies.
    * Progressive Supranuclear Palsy -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Progressive Supranuclear
Palsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProgressiveSupranuclearPalsy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Progressive Supranuclear Palsy is
the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 18 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 30 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

