Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000440.htm    
                                Description: Reactive arthritis is a type of arthritis that follows an infection. It may also cause inflammation of the eyes, skin and urinary and genital systems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Reactive arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000440.htm

# Reactive arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Reactive arthritis is a type of arthritis that follows an infection. It may
also cause inflammation of the eyes, skin and urinary and genital systems.

## Causes

The exact cause of reactive arthritis is unknown. However, it most often
follows an infection, but the joint itself is not infected. Reactive arthritis
occurs most often in men younger than age 4, although it does sometimes affect
women. It may follow an infection in the urethra after unprotected sex. The
most common bacteria that cause such infections is called Chlamydia
trachomatis. Reactive arthritis can also follow a gastrointestinal infection
(such as food poisoning). In up to one half of people thought to have reactive
arthritis, there may be no infection. It is possible that such cases are a
form of spondyloarthritis.

Certain genes may make you more likely to get this condition.

The disorder is rare in young children, but it may occur in teenagers.
Reactive arthritis may occur in children ages 6 to 14 after _Clostridium
difficile_ gastrointestinal infections.

## Symptoms

Urinary symptoms will appear within days or weeks of an infection. These
symptoms may include:

    * Burning when urinating
    * Fluid leaking from the urethra (discharge)
    * Problems starting or continuing a urine stream
    * Needing to urinate more often than normal

A low fever along with eye discharge, burning, or redness (conjunctivitis or
"pink eye") can develop over the next several weeks.

Infections in the intestine may cause diarrhea and abdominal pain. The
diarrhea may be watery or bloody.

Joint pain and stiffness also begin during this time period. The arthritis may
be mild or severe. Arthritis symptoms may include:

    * Heel pain or pain in the Achilles tendon
    * Pain in the hip, knee, ankle, and low back
    * Pain and swelling that affects one or more joints

Symptoms may include skin sores on the palms and soles that look like
psoriasis. There may also be small, painless ulcers in the mouth, tongue, and
penis.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will diagnose the condition based on your symptoms.
A physical exam may show signs of conjunctivitis or skin sores. All symptoms
may not appear at the same time, so there may be a delay in getting a
diagnosis.

You may have the following tests:

    * HLA-B27 antigen
    * Joint x-rays
    * Blood tests to rule out other types of arthritis such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout, or systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * Urinalysis
    * Culture of stool if you have diarrhea
    * Urine tests for bacterial DNA such as _Chlamydia trachomatis_
    * Aspiration of a swollen joint

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms and treat the infection that is
causing this condition.

Eye problems and skin sores do not need to be treated most of the time. They
will go away on their own.Â If eye problems persist, you should be evaluated
by a specialist in eye disease.

Your provider will prescribe antibiotics if you have an infection.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and pain relievers may help with
joint pain. If a joint is very swollen for a long period of time, you may have
corticosteroid medicine injected into the joint.

If arthritis continues in spite of NSAIDs, sulfasalazine or methotrexate may
be helpful. Finally, people who do not respond to these medicines may need
anti-TNF biologic agents such as etanercept (Enbrel) or adalimumab (Humira) to
suppress the immune system.

Physical therapy can help ease the pain. It can also help you move better and
maintain muscle strength.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Reactive arthritis may go away in a few weeks, but it can last for a few
monthsÂ and require medicines during that time. Symptoms may return over a
period of years in up to one half of the people who have this condition.

Rarely, the condition can lead to abnormal heart rhythm or problems with the
aortic heart valve.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you develop symptoms of this condition.

## Prevention

Avoid infections that can bring on reactive arthritis by practicing safe sex
and avoiding things that can cause food poisoning.

## Alternative Names

Reiter syndrome; Post-infectious arthritis

## Images

    * ![Reactive arthritis - view of the feet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1933t.jpg)Reactive arthritis - view of the feet

## References

Augenbraun MH, McCormack WM. Urethritis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 109.

Carter JD, Hudson AP. Undifferentiated spondyloarthritis. In: Firestein GS,
Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's
Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 76.

Horton DB, Strom BL, Putt ME, Rose CD, Sherry DD, Sammons JS. Epidemiology of
clostridium difficile infection-associated reactive arthritis in children: an
underdiagnosed, potentially morbid condition. _JAMA Pediatr_.
2016;170(7):e160217. PMID: 27182697 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27182697.

Link RE, Rosen T. Cutaneous diseases of the external genitalia. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

Misra R, Gupta L. Epidemiology: time to revisit the concept of reactive
arthritis. _Nat Rev Rheumatol_. 2017;13(6):327-328. PMID: 28490789
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28490789.

Okamoto H. Prevalence of chlamydia-associated reactive arthritis. _Scand J
Rheumatol_. 2017;46(5):415-416. PMID: 28067600
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28067600.

Schmitt SK. Reactive arthritis. _Infect Dis Clin North Am_.
2017;31(2):265-277. PMID: 28292540 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28292540.

Weiss PF, Colbert RA. Reactive and postinfectious arthritis. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 182.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infectious
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousArthritis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

