Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000444.htm    
                                Description: Fungal arthritis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of a joint by a fungal infection. It is also called mycotic arthritis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fungal arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000444.htm

# Fungal arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fungal arthritis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of a joint by a
fungal infection. It is also called mycotic arthritis.

## Causes

Fungal arthritis is a rare condition. It can be caused by any of the invasive
types of fungi. The infection can result from an infection in another organ,
such as the lungs and travel to a joint through the bloodstream. A joint can
also become infected during a surgery. People with weakened immune systems who
travel or live in areas where the fungi are common, are more susceptible to
most causes of fungal arthritis.

Conditions that can cause fungal arthritis include:

    * Blastomycosis
    * Candidiasis
    * Coccidioidomycosis
    * Cryptococcosis
    * Histoplasmosis
    * Sporotrichosis
    *  _Exserohilum rostratum_ (from injection with contaminated steroid vials)

## Symptoms

The fungus can affect bone or joint tissue. One or more joints can be
affected, most often the large, weight-bearing joints, such as the knees.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Fever
    * Joint pain
    * Joint stiffness
    * Joint swelling
    * Swelling of the ankles, feet, and legs

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Removal of joint fluid to look for fungus under a microscope
    * Culture of joint fluid that grows fungus
    * Joint x-ray showing joint changes
    * Positive antibody test (serology) for fungal disease
    * Synovial biopsy showing fungus

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection using antifungal drugs.
Commonly used antifungal drugs are amphotericin B or drugs in the azole family
(fluconazole, ketoconazole, or itraconazole).

Chronic or advanced bone or joint infection may require surgery (debridement)
to remove the infected tissue.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the underlying cause of the infection and your
overall health. A weakened immune system, cancer, and certain medicines can
affect the outcome.

## Possible Complications

Joint damage may occur if the infection is not treated right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have any symptoms of fungal
arthritis.

## Prevention

Thorough treatment of fungal infections elsewhere in the body may help prevent
fungal arthritis.

## Alternative Names

Mycotic arthritis;Â Infectious arthritis - fungal

## References

Ohl CA, Forster D. Infectious arthritis of native joints. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 105.

Ruderman EM, Flaherty JP. Fungal infections of bones and joints. In: Firestein
GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's
Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 112.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Infectious
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousArthritis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

