Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000430.htm    
                                Description: Septic arthritis is inflammation of a joint due to a bacterial or fungal infection. Septic arthritis that is due to the bacteria that cause gonorrhea has different symptoms and is called gonococcal arthritis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Septic arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000430.htm

# Septic arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Septic arthritis is inflammation of a joint due to a bacterial or fungal
infection. Septic arthritis that is due to the bacteria that cause gonorrhea
has different symptoms and is called gonococcal arthritis.

## Causes

Septic arthritis develops when bacteria or other tiny disease-causing
organisms (microorganisms) spread through the blood to a joint. It may also
occur when the joint is directly infected with a microorganism from an injury
or during surgery. Joints that are commonly affected are the knee and hip.

Most cases of acute septic arthritis are caused by staphylococcus or
streptococcus bacteria.

Chronic septic arthritis (which is less common) is caused by organisms
including _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ and _Candida albicans_.

The following conditions increase your risk for septic arthritis:

    * Artificial joint implants
    * Bacterial infection somewhere else in your body
    * Presence of bacteria in your blood
    * Chronic illness or disease (such as diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and sickle cell disease)
    * Intravenous (IV) or injection drug use
    * Medicines that suppress your immune system
    * Recent joint injury
    * Recent joint arthroscopy or other surgery 

Septic arthritis may be seen at any age. In children, it occurs most often in
those younger than 3 years. The hip is often the site of infection in infants.
Most cases are caused by the bacteria group B streptococcus. Another common
cause is _Haemophilus influenza_ , especially if the child has not been
vaccinated for this bacterium.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually come on quickly. There is a fever and joint swelling that is
usually in just one joint. There is also intense joint pain, which gets worse
with movement.

Symptoms in newborns or infants:

    * Crying when infected joint is moved (for example, during diaper changes)
    * Fever
    * Not able to move the limb with the infected joint (pseudoparalysis)
    * Fussiness 

Symptoms in children and adults:

    * Not able to move the limb with the infected joint (pseudoparalysis)
    * Severe joint pain
    * Joint swelling
    * Joint redness
    * Fever 

Chills may occur, but are uncommon.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the joint and ask about the symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Aspiration of joint fluid for cell count, examination of crystals under the microscope, gram stain, and culture
    * Blood culture
    * X-ray of affected joint

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to treat the infection.

Resting, raising the joint above heart level, and using cool compresses may
help relieve pain. After the joint starts to heal, exercising it can help
speed recovery.

If joint (synovial) fluid builds up quickly due to the infection, a needle may
be inserted into the joint to withdraw (aspirate) the fluid. Severe cases may
need surgery to drain the infected joint fluid and irrigate (wash) the joint.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery is good with prompt antibiotic treatment. If treatment is delayed,
permanent joint damage may result.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you develop symptoms of septic
arthritis.

## Prevention

Preventive (prophylactic) antibiotics may be helpful for people at high risk.

## Alternative Names

Bacterial arthritis; Non-gonococcal bacterial arthritis

## Images

    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Cook PP, Siraj DS. Bacterial arthritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE,
McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 109.

Robinette E, Shah SS. Septic arthritis. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 705.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infectious
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousArthritis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

