Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000416.htm    
                                Description: Viral arthritis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of a joint caused by a viral infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Viral arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000416.htm

# Viral arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Viral arthritis is swelling and irritation (inflammation) of a joint caused by
a viral infection.

## Causes

Arthritis may be a symptom of many virus-related illnesses. It usually
disappears on its own without any lasting effects.

It may occur with:

    * Enterovirus
    * Dengue virus
    * Hepatitis B
    * Hepatitis C
    * Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
    * Human parvovirus
    * Mumps
    * Rubella
    * Alphaviruses 
    * Cytomegalovirus

It may also occur after immunization with the rubella vaccine, which is
typically given to children.

While many people are infected with these viruses or receive the rubella
vaccine, only a few people develop arthritis. No risk factors are known.

## Symptoms

The main symptoms are joint pain and swelling of one or more joints.

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination shows joint inflammation. A blood test for viruses may
be performed. In some cases, a small amount of fluid may be removed from the
affected joint to determine the cause of the inflammation.

## Treatment

Your health care provider may prescribe pain medicines to relieve discomfort.
You may also be prescribed anti-inflammatory medicines.

If joint inflammation is severe, aspiration of fluid from the affected joint
may relieve pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is usually good. Most viral arthritis disappears within several
days or weeks when the virus-related disease goes away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if arthritis symptoms last longer
than a few weeks.

## Alternative Names

Infectious arthritis - viral

## References

Gasque P. Viral arthritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB,
O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 114.

Ohl CA, Forster D. Infectious arthritis of native joints. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 105.

Reveille JD. Rheumatic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus
infection. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 113.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infectious
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectiousArthritis_thumb.jpg)Infectious
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

