Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000527.htm    
                                Description: Sickle cell disease is a disorder passed down through families. The red blood cells that are normally shaped like a disk take on a sickle or crescent shape. Red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sickle cell disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000527.htm

# Sickle cell disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sickle cell disease is a disorder passed down through families. The red blood
cells that are normally shaped like a disk take on a sickle or crescent shape.
Red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body.

## Causes

Sickle cell disease is caused by an abnormal type of hemoglobin called
hemoglobin S. Hemoglobin is a protein inside red blood cells that carries
oxygen.

    * Hemoglobin S changes the red blood cells. The red blood cells become fragile and shaped like crescents or sickles.
    * The abnormal cells deliver less oxygen to the body's tissues.
    * They can also easily get stuck in small blood vessels and break into pieces. This can interrupt healthy blood flow and cut down even more on the amount of oxygen flowing to body tissues.

Sickle cell disease is inherited from both parents. If you get the sickle cell
gene from only one parent, you will have sickle cell trait. People with sickle
cell trait do not have the symptoms of sickle cell disease.

Sickle cell disease is much more common in people of African and Mediterranean
descent. It is also seen in people from South and Central America, the
Caribbean, and the Middle East.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually do not occur until after the age of 4 months.

Almost all people with sickle cell disease have painful episodes called
crises. These can last from hours to days. Crises can cause pain in the lower
back, leg, joints, and chest.

Some people have one episode every few years. Others have many episodes each
year. The crises can be severe enough to require a hospital stay.

When the anemia becomes more severe, symptoms may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Paleness
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Shortness of breath
    * Yellowing of the eyes and skin (jaundice) 

Younger children with sickle cell disease have attacks of abdominal pain.

The following symptoms may occur because small blood vessels become blocked by
the abnormal cells:

    * Painful and prolonged erection (priapism)
    * Poor eyesight or blindness
    * Problems with thinking or confusion caused by small strokes
    * Ulcers on the lower legs (in adolescents and adults) 

Over time, the spleen stops working. As a result, people with sickle cell
disease may have symptoms of infections such as:

    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Gallbladder infection (cholecystitis)
    * Lung infection (pneumonia)
    * Urinary tract infection 

Other signs and symptoms include:

    * Delayed growth and puberty
    * Painful joints caused by arthritis
    * Heart or liver failure due to too much iron (from blood transfusions)

## Exams and Tests

Tests commonly done to diagnose and monitor people with sickle cell disease
include:

    * Bilirubin
    * Blood oxygen saturation
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Hemoglobin electrophoresis
    * Serum creatinine
    * Serum potassium
    * Sickle cell test

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to manage and control symptoms, and to limit the
number of crises. People with sickle cell disease need ongoing treatment, even
when not having a crisis.

People with this condition should take folic acid supplements. Folic acid
helps make new red blood cells.

Treatment for a sickle cell crisis includes:

    * Blood transfusions (may also be given regularly to prevent stroke)
    * Pain medicines
    * Plenty of fluids 

Other treatments for sickle cell disease may include:

    * Hydroxyurea (Hydrea), which helps reduce the number of pain episodes (including chest pain and breathing problems) in some people.
    * Antibiotics, which help prevent bacterial infections that are common in children with sickle cell disease.
    * Medicines that reduce the amount of iron in the body. 

Treatments that may be needed to manage complications of sickle cell disease
include:

    * Dialysis or kidney transplant for kidney disease
    * Counseling for psychological complications
    * Gallbladder removal in people with gallstone disease
    * Hip replacement for avascular necrosis of the hip
    * Surgery for eye problems
    * Treatment for overuse or abuse of narcotic pain medicines
    * Wound care for leg ulcers 

Bone marrow or stem cell transplants can cure sickle cell disease, but this
treatment is not an option for most people. People with sickle cell disease
often cannot find well-matched stem cell donors.

People with sickle cell disease should have the following vaccinations to
lower the risk for infection:

    * Haemophilus influenzae vaccine (Hib)
    * Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV)
    * Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV) 

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where members share common issues can relieve the
stress of a chronic disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In the past, people with sickle cell disease often died between ages 20 and
40. Thanks to a modern care, people now can live to the age of 50 and beyond.

Causes of death include organ failure and infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Any symptoms of infection (fever, body aches, headache, fatigue)
    * Pain crises
    * Painful and long-term erection (in men) 

## Alternative Names

Anemia - sickle cell; Hemoglobin SS disease (Hb SS); Sickle cell anemia

## Images

    * ![Red blood cells, sickle cell](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1212t.jpg)Red blood cells, sickle cell
    * ![Red blood cells - normal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1218t.jpg)Red blood cells - normal
    * ![Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1223t.jpg)Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells
    * ![Red blood cells - sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1494t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle cells
    * ![Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1495t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer
    * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood
    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

National Heart Lung and Blood Institute website. Evidence-based management of
sickle cell disease: expert panel report, 2014. www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-
topics/evidence-based-management-sickle-cell-disease. Published September
2014. Accessed January 19, 2018.

Saunthararajah Y, Vichinsky EP. Sickle cell disease: clinical features and
management. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology:
Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
42.

Steinberg MH. Sickle cell disease and other hemoglobinopathies. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 163.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sickle_Cell_Topic_thumb.jpg)Sickle Cell
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

