Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003489.htm    
                                Description: Total iron binding capacity (TIBC) is a blood test to see if you have too much or too little iron in your blood. Iron moves through the blood attached to a protein called transferrin. This test helps your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Total iron binding capacity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003489.htm

# Total iron binding capacity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Total iron binding capacity (TIBC) is a blood test to see if you have too much
or too little iron in your blood. Iron moves through the blood attached to a
protein called transferrin. This test helps your health care provider know how
well that protein can carry iron in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink for 8 hours before the test.

Certain medicines may affect the result of this test. Your provider will tell
you if you need to stop taking any medicines. DO NOT stop any medicine before
talking to your provider.

Medicines that can affect the test result include:

    * Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)
    * Birth control pills
    * Chloramphenicol
    * Fluorides 

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may recommend this test if:

    * You have signs or symptoms of anemia due to low iron.
    * Other lab tests suggest you have anemia due to low iron levels 

## Normal Results

Normal value range is:

    * Iron: 60 to 170 micrograms per deciliter (mcg/dL) or 10.74 to 30.43 micromoles per liter (micromol/L)
    * TIBC: 240 to 450 mcg/dL or 42.96 to 80.55 micromol/L
    * Transferrin saturation: 20% to 50% 

The numbers above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

TIBC is usually higher than normal when the body's iron supplies are low. This
can occur with:

    * Iron deficiency anemia
    * Pregnancy (late)

Lower-than-normal TIBC may mean:

    * Anemia due to red blood cells being destroyed too quickly (hemolytic anemia)
    * Lower-than-normal level of protein in the blood (hypoproteinemia)
    * Inflammation
    * Liver disease, such as cirrhosis
    * Malnutrition
    * Decrease in red blood cells from the intestines not properly absorbing vitamin B12 (pernicious anemia)
    * Sickle cell anemia

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

TIBC; Anemia -TIBC

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Brittenham GM. Disorders of iron homeostasis: iron deficiency and overload.
In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic
Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Iron (Fe) and total iron-binding capacity
(TIBC)/transferrin â serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2013:691-692.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Hierro en la dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Iron_thumb.jpg)Iron _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

