Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003666.htm    
                                Description: The sickle cell test looks for the abnormal hemoglobin in the blood that causes the disorder sickle cell disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sickle cell test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003666.htm

# Sickle cell test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The sickle cell test looks for the abnormal hemoglobin in the blood that
causes the disorder sickle cell disease.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to tell if a person has abnormal hemoglobin that causes
sickle cell disease and sickle cell trait. Hemoglobin is a protein in red
blood cells that carries oxygen.

In sickle cell disease, a person hasÂ two abnormal hemoglobin S genes. A
person with sickle cell trait has onlyÂ one of these abnormal genes and no
symptoms, or only mild ones.

This test does not tell the difference between these two conditions. Another
test, called hemoglobin electrophoresis, will be done to tell which condition
someone has.

## Normal Results

A normal test result is called a negative result.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal test result indicates the person might haveÂ one of these:

    * Sickle cell disease
    * Sickle cell trait 

Iron deficiency or blood transfusions within the past 3 months can cause a
false negative result. This means the person might have the abnormal
hemoglobin for sickle cell, but these other factors are making their test
results appear negative (normal).

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Sickledex; Hgb S test

## Images

    * ![Red blood cells, sickle cell](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1212t.jpg)Red blood cells, sickle cell
    * ![Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1223t.jpg)Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells
    * ![Red blood cells - sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1494t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle cells
    * ![Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1495t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Sickle cell test - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1014.

Saunthararajah Y, Vichinsky EP. Sickle cell disease: clinical features and
management. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology:
Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
42.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sickle_Cell_Topic_thumb.jpg)Sickle Cell
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

