Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000455.htm    
                                Description: Frozen shoulder is a condition in which the shoulder is painful and loses motion because of inflammation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Frozen shoulder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000455.htm

# Frozen shoulder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Frozen shoulder is a condition in which the shoulder is painful and loses
motion because of inflammation.

## Causes

The capsule of the shoulder joint has ligaments that hold the shoulder bones
to each other. When the capsule becomes inflamed, the shoulder bones are
unable to move freely in the joint.

Most of the time, there is no cause for frozen shoulder. Risk factors include:

    * Diabetes
    * Thyroid problems
    * Changes in your hormones, such as during menopause
    * Shoulder injury
    * Shoulder surgery
    * Open heart surgery
    * Cervical disk disease of the neck 
    * Women 40 to 70 years old are most affected  
  

## Symptoms

Main symptoms of a frozen shoulder are:

    * Decreased motion of the shoulder
    * Pain
    * Stiffness 

Frozen shoulder without any known cause starts with pain. This pain prevents
you from moving your arm. This lack of movement can lead to stiffness and even
less motion. Over time, you are not able to do movements such as reaching over
your head or behind you.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will ask about your symptoms and examine your
shoulder. A diagnosis is often made when you are not able to rotate your
shoulder.

You may have x-rays of the shoulder. This is to make sure there is no other
problem, such as arthritis or calcium deposits. Sometimes, an MRI exam shows
inflammation, but these types of imaging tests are usually not needed to
diagnose frozen shoulder.

## Treatment

Pain is treated with NSAIDs and steroid injections. Steroid injections and
physical therapy can improve your motion.

It can take a few weeks to see progress. It may take as long as 9 months to a
year for complete recovery. Physical therapy is intense and needs to be done
every day.

Left untreated, the condition often gets better by itself within 2 years with
little loss of motion.

Risk factors for frozen shoulder, such as menopause, diabetes or thyroid
problems, should also be treated.

Surgery is recommended if nonsurgical treatment is not effective. This
procedure (shoulder arthroscopy) is done under anesthesia. During surgery the
scar tissue is released (cut) by bringing the shoulder through a full range of
motion. Arthroscopic surgery can also be used to cut the tight ligaments and
remove the scar tissue from the shoulder. After surgery, you may receive pain
blocks (shots) so you can do physical therapy.

Follow instructions on caring for your shoulder at home.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment with physical therapy and NSAIDs often restores motion and function
of the shoulder within a year. Even untreated, the shoulder may get better by
itself in 2 years.

After surgery restores motion, you must continue physical therapy for several
weeks or months. This is to prevent the frozen shoulder from returning. If
youÂ do notÂ keep up with physical therapy, the frozen shoulder may come back.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Stiffness and pain continue even with therapy
    * The arm can break if the shoulder is moved forcefully during surgery 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have shoulder pain and stiffness and think you have a frozen shoulder,
contact your provider for referral and treatment.

## Prevention

Early treatment may help prevent stiffness. Call your provider if you develop
shoulder pain that limits your range of motion for an extended period.

People who have diabetes or thyroid problems will be less likely to get frozen
shoulder if they keep their condition under control.

## Alternative Names

Adhesive capsulitis; Shoulder pain - frozen

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Shoulder joint inflammation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8811t.jpg)Shoulder joint inflammation

## References

American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons website. Frozen shoulder.
orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/diseases--conditions/frozen-shoulder. Updated March
2018. Accessed December 10, 2018.

Finnoff JT. Upper limb pain and dysfunction. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 35.

Harris JD, Griesser MJ, Jones GL. Stiff shoulder. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 55.

Miller RH, Azar FM, Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow injuries. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Shoulder
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

