Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000562.htm    
                                Description: Shoulder separation is not an injury to the main shoulder joint itself. It is an injury to the top of the shoulder where the collarbone (clavicle) meets the top of the shoulder blade (acromion of the scapula).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder separation - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000562.htm

# Shoulder separation - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shoulder separation is not an injury to the main shoulder joint itself. It is
an injury to the top of the shoulder where the collarbone (clavicle) meets the
top of the shoulder blade (acromion of the scapula).

It is not the same as a shoulder dislocation. A dislocated shoulder occurs
when the arm bone comes out of the main shoulder joint.

## About Your Injury

Most shoulder separation injuries are caused by falling onto the shoulder.
This results in a tear in the tissue that connects the collarbone and top of
the shoulder blade. These tears can also come from car accidents and sports
injuries.

This injury can make the shoulder look abnormal from the end of a bone
sticking up or the shoulder hanging lower than normal.

Pain is usually at the very top of the shoulder.

Your health care provider may have you hold onto a weight while examining you
to see if your collarbone sticks out. An x-ray of your shoulder may help
diagnose a shoulder separation.

## What to Expect

Most people recover from a shoulder separation without surgery, within 2 to 12
weeks. You will be treated with ice, medicines, a sling, and then exercises as
you continue to heal.

Your recovery may be slower if you have:

    * Arthritis in your shoulder joint
    * Damaged cartilage (cushioning tissue) between your collarbone and top of your shoulder blade
    * A severe shoulder separation 

You may need surgery right away if you have:

    * Numbness in your fingers
    * Cold fingers
    * Muscle weakness in your arm
    * Severe deformity of the joint 

## Self-care at Home

Make an ice pack by putting ice in a sealable plastic bag and wrapping a cloth
around it. DO NOT put the bag of ice directly on the area, as the ice could
damage your skin.

On the first day of your injury, apply the ice every 10 to 15 minutes, for 20
minutes each time. After the first day, ice the area every 3 to 4 hours for 20
minutes each time. Do this for 2 days or longer, or as instructed by your
provider.

For pain, you can take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
aspirin, or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines without
a prescription.

    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle.
    * DO NOT give aspirin to children. 

You may be given a shoulder sling to use for a few weeks.

    * Once you have less pain, begin range of motion exercises so that your shoulder does not get stuck in place. This is called contracture. Check with your provider before doing any of these motions.
    * After your injury has healed, DO NOT lift heavy objects for 8 to 12 weeks. 

## Follow-up

If you continue to have pain, your provider will probably ask you to come back
in 1 week to decide if you need to:

    * See an orthopedist (bone and joint doctor)
    * Begin physical therapy or range of motion exercises 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor or go to the emergency room right away if you have:

    * Severe pain
    * Weakness in your arm or fingers
    * Numb or cold fingers
    * A sharp decrease in how well you can move your arm
    * A lump on top of your shoulder that makes your shoulder look abnormal 

## Alternative Names

Separated shoulder - aftercare; Acromioclavicular joint separation -
aftercare; A/C separation - aftercare

## References

Andermahr J, Ring D, Jupiter JB. Fractures and dislocations of the clavicle.
In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma:
Basic Science, Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 49.

Bengtzen RR, Daya MR. Shoulder. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 46.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

