Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007359.htm    
                                Description: A shoulder MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses energy from powerful magnets and to create pictures of the shoulder area.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder MRI scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007359.htm

# Shoulder MRI scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A shoulder MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses
energy from powerful magnets and to create pictures of the shoulder area.

It does not use radiation (x-rays).

Single MRI images are called slices. The images can be stored on a computer or
printed on film. One exam produces dozens or sometimes hundreds of images.

Related tests include:

    * Arm MRI
    * MRI

## How the Test is Performed

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothing without metal snaps or
zippers (such as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Make sure you take off your watch,
jewelry, and wallet. Some types of metal can cause blurry images.

You will lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-like tube.

Some exams require a special dye (contrast). The dye is usually given before
the test through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The dye can also be
injected into the shoulder. The dye helps the radiologist see certain areas
more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but it may take
longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your doctor if you are afraid of close spaces (have claustrophobia). You
may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less anxious (sedative).
Your doctor may also suggest an "open" MRI, in which the machine is not as
close to the body.

Before the test, tell your health care provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Certain types of artificial heart valves
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Certain types of vascular stents
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed in the
room with the MRI scanner:

    * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
    * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
    * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. You will need to lie still. Too much movement can
cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can request a blanket or pillow. The
machine produces loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room lets you speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs have
televisions and special headphones to help you pass the time.

There is no recovery time, unless you received medicine to relax. After an MRI
scan, you can go back to your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

MRI is useful for diagnosing and evaluating sports injuries. It can provide
clear pictures of parts of the shoulder (such as soft tissues) that are hard
to see clearly on CT scans.

Your provider may order this test if you have:

    * A mass that can be felt during a physical exam
    * An abnormal finding on an x-ray or bone scan
    * Shoulder pain and fever
    * Decreased motion of the shoulder joint
    * Fluid buildup in the shoulder joint
    * Redness or swelling of the shoulder joint
    * Shoulder instability
    * Shoulder weakness
    * Shoulder pain and a history of cancer
    * Shoulder pain that does not get better with treatment 

## Normal Results

A normal result means no problems were seen in your shoulder and surrounding
tissue in the images.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Some possible causes of abnormal results may be:

    * Degenerative changes due to age
    * Abscess
    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Broken or fractured shoulder bone
    * Bursitis in the shoulder area
    * Biceps tear
    * Abnormal Osteonecrosis (vascular necrosis)
    * Rotator cuff tear
    * Rotator cuff tendinitis
    * Shoulder inflammation (frozen shoulder)
    * Tumor (including cancer)
    * Labral tear
    * Cyst in the shoulder 

This list does not include all possible problems. Talk to your provider with
any questions and concerns.

## Risks

MRI contains no radiation. No side effects from the magnetic fields and radio
waves have been reported.

It is also safe to have MRI performed during pregnancy. No side effects or
complications have been proven.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to the substance rarely occur. However, gadolinium can be
harmful to people with kidney problems that require dialysis. If you have
kidney problems, please tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants not to work as well. It can also cause a piece of metal
inside your body to move or shift. Please make sure you do not bring anything
that contains metal into the scanner room, it can become projectile and
dangerous to you.

## Considerations

Tests that may be done instead of an MRI of the shoulder include:

    * Shoulder CT scan
    * X-ray of the shoulder

A CT scan may be preferred in some emergency cases, since it is faster and
usually available right in the emergency room.

## Alternative Names

MRI - shoulder; Magnetic resonance imaging - shoulder

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder replacement - discharge 
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery

## References

Anderson MW, Fox MG. MRI of the shoulder. In: Anderson MW, Fox MG, eds.
_Sectional anatomy by MRI and CT_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 2.

Hanypsiak B, DeLong JM, Lowe WR. Scapulothoracic disorders. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 57.

Wilkinson ID, Graves MJ. Magnetic resonance imaging. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DislocatedShoulder_thumb.jpg)Dislocated
Shoulder _Read more_

![MRI Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MRIScans_thumb.jpg)MRI Scans _Read
more_

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Shoulder
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

