Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000550.htm    
                                Description: A frozen shoulder is shoulder pain that leads to stiffness of your shoulder. Often the pain and stiffness are present all the time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Frozen shoulder - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000550.htm

# Frozen shoulder - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A frozen shoulder is shoulder pain that leads to stiffness of your shoulder.
Often the pain and stiffness are present all the time.

## More About Your Injury

The capsule of the shoulder joint is made of strong tissue (ligaments) that
hold the shoulder bones to each other. When the capsule becomes inflamed, the
shoulder bones cannot move freely in the joint. This condition is called
frozen shoulder.

Frozen shoulder may develop with no known cause. It can also occur in people
who:

    * Have thyroid disease, diabetes, or are going through menopause
    * Have a shoulder injury
    * Have had a stroke that makes them unable to use their arm
    * Have a cast on their arm that holds their arm in one position 

## What to Expect

Symptoms of frozen shoulder often follow this pattern:

    * At first, you have a lot of pain, which can come on abruptly even without an injury or trauma.
    * Your shoulder can become very stiff and hard to move, even when the pain lessens. It becomes hard to reach over your head or behind you. This is the freezing phase.
    * Finally, the pain goes away and you can use your arm again. This is the thawing phase and can take months to end.

It can take a few months to go through each stage of frozen shoulder. The
shoulder can get very painful and stiff before it starts to loosen. It can
take as long as 18 to 24 months for complete healing. To help speed healing,
your health care provider will likely do the following:

    * Teach you exercises to restore motion in your shoulder joint.
    * Refer you to a physical therapist.
    * Prescribe medicines for you to take by mouth. These include drugs to reduce pain and inflammation in the shoulder joint. You may also receive a shot of anti-inflammatory drug or steroid directly into the joint.

Most people have a full recovery with full range of motion without surgery.

## Symptom Relief

Using moist heat on your shoulder 3 to 4 times a day may help relieve some
pain and stiffness.

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider.

## In Your Home

Get help setting up your home so that you can get to everything you need
without reaching above your shoulders or behind your back.

    * Keep the clothes that you wear most often in drawers and shelves that are between your waist and shoulder level.
    * Store food in cupboards, drawers, and refrigerator shelves that are between your waist and shoulder level. 

Get help with house cleaning, taking out the garbage, gardening, and other
household tasks.

DO NOT lift heavy things or do activities that require a lot of shoulder and
arm strength.

## Shoulder Exercises

You will learn some simple exercises and stretches for your shoulder.

    * At first, try to do these exercises once every hour, or at least 4 times a day.
    * It is more important to do the exercises often than to do them for a long time each time you do them.
    * Use moist heat before the exercises to help lessen pain and increase movement.
    * The exercises should focus on stretching of the shoulder and range of motion.
    * Avoid exercises to strengthen your shoulder until the range of motion has returned. 

Some of the exercises are:

    * Shoulder stretches
    * Pendulum
    * Wall crawl
    * Rope and pulley stretches
    * Movements to help with internal and external rotation, such as hand behind back 

Your doctor or physical therapist will show you how to do these exercises.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

    * The pain in your shoulder is getting much worse even if you take pain medicine
    * You re-injure your arm or shoulder
    * Your frozen shoulder is making you feel sad or depressed 

## Alternative Names

Adhesive capsulitis - aftercare; Frozen shoulder syndrome - aftercare;
Pericapsulitis - aftercare; Stiff shoulder - aftercare; Shoulder pain - frozen
shoulder

## References

Krabak BJ. Adhesive capsulitis. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD Jr, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal
Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 11.

Martin SD, Upadhyaya S, Thornhill TS. Shoulder pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd
RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

