Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000175.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery on your shoulder to repair a muscle, tendon, or cartilage tear. The surgeon may have removed damaged tissue. You will need to know how to take care of your shoulder as it heals, and how    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Using your shoulder after surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000175.htm

# Using your shoulder after surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery on your shoulder to repair a muscle, tendon, or cartilage
tear. The surgeon may have removed damaged tissue. You will need to know how
to take care of your shoulder as it heals, and how to make it stronger.

## What to Expect at Home

You will need to wear a sling when you leave the hospital. You may also need
to wear a shoulder immobilizer. This keeps your shoulder from moving. How long
you need to wear the sling or immobilizer depends on the type of surgery you
had.

Follow your surgeon's instructions for how to take care of your shoulder at
home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## Self-care

Wear the sling or immobilizer at all times, unless the surgeon says you do not
have to.

    * It is OK to straighten your arm below your elbow and move your wrist and hand. But try to move your arm as little as possible.
    * Your arm should bend at a 90Â° angle (a right angle) at your elbow. The sling should support your wrist and hand so that they do not extend past the sling.
    * Move your fingers, hand, and wrist around 3 to 4 times during the day while they are in the sling. Each time, do this 10 to 15 times.
    * When the surgeon tells you to, begin taking your arm out of the sling and let it hang loosely by your side. Do this for longer periods each day. 

If you wear a shoulder immobilizer, you can loosen it only at the wrist strap
and straighten your arm at your elbow. Be careful not to move your shoulder
when you do this. DO NOT take off the immobilizer all the way unless the
surgeon tells you it is OK.

If you had rotator cuff surgery or other ligament or labral surgery, you need
to be careful with your shoulder. Ask the surgeon what arm movements are safe
to do.

    * DO NOT move your arm away from your body or over your head.
    * When you sleep, raise your upper body up on pillows. DO NOT lie flat as it can hurt the shoulder more. You can also try sleeping on a reclining chair. Ask your surgeon how long you need to sleep this way.

You may also be told not to use your or hand on the side that had surgery. For
example, DO NOT:

    * Lift anything with this arm or hand.
    * Lean on the arm or put any weight on it.
    * Bring objects toward your stomach by pulling in with this arm and hand.
    * Move or twist your elbow behind your body to reach for anything. 

Your surgeon will refer you to a physical therapist to learn exercises for
your shoulder.

    * You will probably start with passive exercises. These are exercises the therapist will do with your arm. They help get the full movement back in your shoulder.
    * After that you will do exercises the therapist teaches you. These will help increase the strength in your shoulder and the muscles around your shoulder. 

Consider making some changes around your home so it is easier for you to take
care of yourself. Store everyday items you use in places you can reach easily.
Keep things with you that you use a lot (such as your phone).

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon or nurse if you have any of the following:

    * Bleeding that soaks through your dressing and does not stop when you place pressure over the area
    * Pain that does not go away when you take your pain medicine
    * Swelling in your arm
    * Your hand or fingers are darker in color or feel cool to the touch
    * Numbness or tingling in your fingers or hand
    * Redness, pain, swelling, or a yellowish discharge from any of the wounds
    * Fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or higher
    * Shortness of breath and chest pain

## Alternative Names

Shoulder surgery - using your shoulder; Shoulder surgery - after

## References

Cordasco FA. Shoulder arthroscopy. In: Rockwood CA, Matsen FA, Wirth MA,
Lippitt SB, Fehringer EV, Sperling JW, eds. _Rockwood and Matsen's The
Shoulder_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 15.

Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Wilk KE, Macrina LC, Arrigo C. Shoulder rehabilitation. In: Andrews JR,
Harrelson GL, Wilk KE, eds. _Physical Rehabilitation of the Injured Athlete_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 12.

## Read More

    * Osteoarthritis
    * Rotator cuff problems
    * Rotator cuff repair 
    * Shoulder arthroscopy
    * Shoulder pain

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

