Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000179.htm    
                                Description: You had shoulder surgery to repair the tissues inside or around your shoulder joint. The surgeon may have used a tiny camera called an arthroscope to see inside your shoulder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000179.htm

# Shoulder surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had shoulder surgery to repair the tissues inside or around your shoulder
joint. The surgeon may have used a tiny camera called an arthroscope to see
inside your shoulder.

You may have needed open surgery if your surgeon could not repair your
shoulder with the arthroscope. If you had open surgery, you have a large cut
(incision).

Now that you're going home, be sure to follow your surgeon's instructions on
how to take care of your shoulder. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

While in the hospital, you should have received pain medicine. You also
learned how to manage swelling around your shoulder joint.

Your surgeon or physical therapist may have taught you exercises to do at
home.

## What to Expect at Home

You will need to wear a sling when you leave the hospital. You may also need
to wear a shoulder immobilizer. This keeps your shoulder from moving. Wear the
sling or immobilizer at all times, unless your surgeon says you do not have
to.

## Activity

If you had rotator cuff or other ligament or labral surgery, you need to be
careful with your shoulder. Follow instructions on what arm movements are
safe.

Consider making some changes around your home so it is easier for you to take
care of yourself.

Keep doing the exercises you were taught for as long as you were told. This
helps strengthen the muscles that support your shoulder and ensures it heals
well.

You may not be able to drive for a few weeks. Your doctor or physical
therapist will tell you when it is OK.

Ask your doctor about which sports and other activities are OK for you after
you recover.

## Pain

Your doctor will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled
when you go home so you have it when you need it. Take the pain medicine when
you start having pain so it doesn't get too bad.

Narcotic pain medicine (codeine, hydrocodone, and oxycodone) can make you
constipated. If you are taking them, drink plenty of fluids and eat fruits and
vegetables and other high-fiber foods to help keep your stools loose.

DO NOT drink alcohol or drive if you are taking these pain medicines.

Taking ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or other anti-inflammatory medicines with
your prescription pain medicine may help also. Ask your doctor about using
them. Follow instructions exactly on how to take your medicines.

## Wound Care

Place ice packs on the dressing (bandage) over your wound (incision) 4 to 6
times a day for about 20 minutes each time. Wrap the ice packs in a clean
towel or cloth. DO NOT place it directly on the dressing. Ice helps keep
swelling down.

Your sutures (stitches) will be removed about 1 to 2 weeks after surgery.

Keep your bandage and your wound clean and dry. Ask your doctor if it is OK to
change the dressing. Keeping a gauze pad under your arm may help absorb sweat
and keep your underarm skin from getting irritated or sore. DO NOT place any
lotion or ointment on your incision.

Check with your doctor about when you can start taking showers if you have a
sling or shoulder immobilizer. Take sponge baths until you can shower. When
you do shower:

    * Place a waterproof bandage or plastic wrap over the wound to keep it dry.
    * When you can shower without covering the wound, do not scrub it. Gently wash your wound.
    * Be careful to keep your arm by your side. To clean under this arm, lean to the side, and let it hang down away from your body. Reach under it with your other arm to clean under it. DO NOT raise it as you clean it.
    * DO NOT soak the wound in a bath tub, hot tub, or swimming pool. 

## Follow-up

You will probably see the surgeon every 4 to 6 weeks until you are recovered.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the surgeon or nurse if you have any of the following:

    * Bleeding that soaks through your dressing and does not stop when you place pressure over the area
    * Pain that does not go away when you take your pain medicine
    * Swelling in your arm
    * Numbness or tingling in your fingers or hand
    * Your hand or fingers are darker in color or feel cool to the touch
    * Redness, pain, swelling, or a yellowish discharge from any of the wounds
    * Temperature higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) 

## Alternative Names

SLAP repair - discharge; Acromioplasty - discharge; Bankart - discharge;
Shoulder repair - discharge; Shoulder arthroscopy - discharge

## References

Cordasco FA. Shoulder arthroscopy. In: Rockwood CA, Matsen FA, Wirth MA,
Lippitt SB, Fehringer EV, Sperling JW, eds. _Rockwood and Matsen's The
Shoulder_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 15.

Edwards TB, Morris BJ. Rehabilitation after shoulder arthroplasty. In: Edwards
TB, Morris BJ, eds. _Shoulder Arthroplasty_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 43.

Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Read More

    * Frozen shoulder
    * Osteoarthritis
    * Rotator cuff problems
    * Rotator cuff repair 
    * Shoulder arthroscopy
    * Shoulder CT scan
    * Shoulder MRI scan
    * Shoulder pain

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder replacement - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

