Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000178.htm    
                                Description: You had shoulder replacement surgery to replace the bones of your shoulder joint with artificial joint parts. The parts include a stem made of metal and a metal ball that fits on the top of the stem. A    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder replacement - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000178.htm

# Shoulder replacement - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had shoulder replacement surgery to replace the bones of your shoulder
joint with artificial joint parts. The parts include a stem made of metal and
a metal ball that fits on the top of the stem. A plastic piece is used as the
new surface of the shoulder blade.

Now that you're going home, be sure to follow your surgeon's instructions on
how to take care of your new shoulder. Use the information below as a
reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

While in the hospital, you should have received pain medicine. You also
learned how to manage swelling around your new joint.

Your doctor or physical therapist may have taught you exercises to do at home.

## What to Expect at Home

Your shoulder area may feel warm and tender for 2 to 4 weeks. The swelling
should go down during this time. You may want to make some changes around your
home so it is easier for you to take care of yourself.

Arrange for someone to help you with daily tasks such as driving, shopping,
bathing, making meals, and housework for up to 6 weeks.

## Activity

You will need to wear a sling for the first 6 weeks after surgery. Rest your
shoulder and elbow on a rolled up towel or small pillow when lying down.

Keep doing the exercises you were taught for as long as you were told. This
helps strengthen the muscles that support your shoulder and ensures the
shoulder heals well.

Follow instructions on safe ways to move and use your shoulder.

You may not be able to drive for at least 4 to 6 weeks. Your doctor or
physical therapist will tell you when it is OK.

Consider making some changes around your home so it is easier for you to take
care of yourself.

Ask your doctor about which sports and other activities are OK for you after
you recover.

## Pain

Your doctor will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled
when you go home so you have it when you need it. Take the pain medicine when
you start having pain. Waiting too long to take it allows the pain to get
worse than it should.

Narcotic pain medicine (codeine, hydrocodone, and oxycodone) can make you
constipated. If you are taking them, drink plenty of fluids, and eat fruits
and vegetables and other high-fiber foods to help keep your stools loose.

DO NOT drink alcohol or drive if you are taking these pain medicines. These
medicines may make you too sleepy to drive safely.

Taking ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or other anti-inflammatory medicines with
your prescription pain medicine may also help. Your doctor may also give you
aspirin to prevent blood clots. Stop taking anti-inflammatory medicines if you
take aspirin. Follow instructions exactly on how to take your medicines.

## Wound Care

Sutures (stitches) or staples will be removed about 1 to 2 weeks after
surgery.

Keep the dressing (bandage) over your wound clean and dry. Change the dressing
as instructed.

    * DO NOT shower until after your follow-up appointment with your doctor. Your doctor will tell you when you can begin taking showers. When you do, let the water run over the incision. DO NOT scrub.
    * DO NOT soak your wound in the bath tub or a hot tub for at least the first 3 weeks. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the surgeon or nurse if you have any of the following:

    * Bleeding that soaks through your dressing and does not stop when you place pressure over the area
    * Pain that does not go away when you take your pain medicine
    * Numbness or tingling in your fingers or hand
    * Your hand or fingers are darker in color or feel cool to the touch
    * Swelling in your arm
    * Your new shoulder joint does not feel secure, like it is moving around or shifting
    * Redness, pain, swelling, or a yellowish discharge from the wound
    * Temperature higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Shortness of breath 

## Alternative Names

Total shoulder arthroplasty - discharge; Endoprosthetic shoulder replacement -
discharge; Partial shoulder replacement - discharge; Partial shoulder
arthroplasty - discharge; Replacement - shoulder - discharge; Arthroplasty -
shoulder - discharge

## References

Edwards TB, Morris BJ. Rehabilitation after shoulder arthroplasty. In: Edwards
TB, Morris BJ, eds. _Shoulder Arthroplasty_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 43.

Throckmorton TW. Shoulder and elbow arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Read More

    * Osteoarthritis
    * Shoulder CT scan
    * Shoulder MRI scan
    * Shoulder pain
    * Shoulder replacement

## Patient Instructions

    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Shoulder Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

