Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003171.htm    
                                Description: Shoulder pain is any pain in or around the shoulder joint.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003171.htm

# Shoulder pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shoulder pain is any pain in or around the shoulder joint.

## Considerations

The shoulder is the most movable joint in the human body. A group of four
muscles and their tendons, called the rotator cuff, give the shoulder its wide
range of motion.

Swelling, damage, or bone changes around the rotator cuff can cause shoulder
pain. You may have pain when lifting the arm above your head or moving it
forward or behind your back.

## Causes

The most common cause of shoulder pain occurs when rotator cuff tendons become
trapped under the bony area in the shoulder. The tendons become inflamed or
damaged. This condition is called rotator cuff tendinitis or bursitis.

![Bursitis of the
shoulder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8741.jpg)

Shoulder pain may also be caused by:

    * Arthritis in the shoulder joint
    * Bone spurs in the shoulder area
    * Bursitis, which is inflammation of a fluid-filled sac (bursa) that normally protects the joint and helps it move smoothly
    * Broken shoulder bone
    * Dislocation of the shoulder
    * Shoulder separation
    * Frozen shoulder, which occurs when the muscles, tendons, and ligaments inside the shoulder become stiff, making movement difficult and painful
    * Overuse or injury of nearby tendons, such as the bicep muscles of the arms
    * Tears of the rotator cuff tendons 
    * Poor shoulder posture and mechanics

![Shoulder joint
dislocation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200069t.gif)Watch this
video about:Shoulder joint dislocation

Sometimes, shoulder pain may be due to a problem in another area of the body,
such as the neck or lungs. This is called referred pain. There is usually pain
at rest and no worsening of pain when moving the shoulder.

## Home Care

Here are some tips for helping shoulder pain get better:

    * Put ice on the shoulder area for 15 minutes, then leave it off for 15 minutes. Do this 3 to 4 times a day for 2 to 3 days. Wrap the ice in cloth. Do not put ice directly on the skin because this can result in frostbite.
    * Rest your shoulder for the next few days.
    * Slowly return to your regular activities. A physical therapist can help you do this safely.
    * Taking ibuprofen or acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) may help reduce inflammation and pain. 

Rotator cuff problems can be treated at home also.

    * If you have had shoulder pain before, use ice and ibuprofen after exercising.
    * Learn exercises to stretch and strengthen your rotator cuff tendons and shoulder muscles. A doctor or physical therapist can recommend such exercises.
    * If you are recovering from tendinitis, continue to do range-of-motion exercises to avoid frozen shoulder.
    * Practice good posture to keep your shoulder muscles and tendons in their right positions. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Sudden left shoulder pain can sometimes be a sign of a heart attack. Call 911
if you have sudden pressure or crushing pain in your shoulder, especially if
the pain runs from your chest to the left jaw, arm or neck, or occurs with
shortness of breath, dizziness, or sweating.

![Heart attack symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9807.jpg)

Go to the hospital emergency room if you have just had a severe injury and
your shoulder is very painful, swollen, bruised, or bleeding.

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Shoulder pain with a fever, swelling, or redness
    * Problems moving the shoulder
    * Pain for more than 2 to 4 weeks, even after home treatment
    * Swelling of the shoulder
    * Red or blue color of the skin of the shoulder area 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and closely look at your shoulder.
You will be asked questions to help the provider understand your shoulder
problem.

Blood or imaging tests, such as x-rays or MRI, may be ordered to help diagnose
the problem.

Your provider may recommend treatment for shoulder pain, including:

    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Injection of an anti-inflammatory medicine called corticosteroid
    * Physical therapy
    * Surgery if all other treatments do not work 

If you have a rotator cuff problem, your provider will likely suggest self-
care measures and exercises.

## Alternative Names

Pain - shoulder

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder replacement - discharge 
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery
    * Using your shoulder after surgery

## Images

    * ![Impingement syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19614t.jpg)Impingement syndrome
    * ![Rotator cuff muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19622t.jpg)Rotator cuff muscles
    * ![Heart attack symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9807t.jpg)Heart attack symptoms
    * ![Bursitis of the shoulder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8741t.jpg)Bursitis of the shoulder
    * ![Shoulder separation - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15040t.jpg)Shoulder separation - series

## References

Gill TJ. Shoulder diagnosis and decision-making. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee, Drez, & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and
Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 37.

Martin SD, Upadhyaya S, Thornhill TS. Shoulder pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd
RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Shoulder
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

