Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007346.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the shoulder is an imaging method that uses x-rays to create cross-sectional pictures of the shoulder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shoulder CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007346.htm

# Shoulder CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the shoulder is an imaging method that uses
x-rays to create cross-sectional pictures of the shoulder.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the
CT scanner.

Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
(Modern "spiral" scanners can perform the exam without stopping.)

A computer creates separate images of the shoulder area. These are called
slices. These images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film.
Three-dimensional models of the shoulder area can be created by adding the
slices together.

You must be still during the exam, because movement causes blurred images. You
may be told to hold your breath for short periods of time.

The scan should take only 10 to 15 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain exams require a special dye, called contrast, to be delivered into the
body before the test starts. Contrast helps certain areas show up better on
the x-rays.

    * Contrast can be given through a vein (IV). If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the test.
    * Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test in order to safely receive this substance.
    * Before receiving the contrast, tell your provider if you take the diabetes medicine metformin (Glucophage) because you may need to take extra precautions.

If you weigh more than 300 pounds (135 kilograms), find out if the CT machine
has a weight limit. Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner's working
parts.

You will be asked to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the study.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may have discomfort from lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause a slight burning sensation, a metallic
taste in the mouth, and a warm flushing of the body. These sensations are
normal and most often go away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT rapidly creates detailed pictures of the shoulder. The test may help
diagnose or detect:

    * A dislocation, fracture, or other shoulder injury
    * Evaluate the soft tissue such as rotator cuff tendons
    * Abscess or infection
    * The cause of pain or other problems in the shoulder joint when MRI cannot be done
    * Masses and tumors, including cancer 
    * Healing problems or scar tissue following surgery

This test may also help guide a surgeon to the right area during a biopsy in
the shoulder area.

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if the shoulder being examined is normal in
appearance.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Abscess (collection of pus)
    * Bone tumors or cancer
    * Dislocated shoulder
    * Shoulder fracture
    * Rotator cuff tears
    * Failure to heal or development of scar tissue after surgery

## Risks

Risks of CT scans include:

    * Being exposed to radiation
    * Allergic reaction to contrast dye 
    * Birth defect if done during pregnancy

CT scans do expose you to more radiation than regular x-rays. Having many
x-rays or CT scans over time may increase your risk for cancer. However, the
risk from any one scan is small. You and your provider should weigh this risk
against the benefits of getting a correct diagnosis for a medical problem.

Some people have allergies to contrast dye. Let your provider know if you have
ever had an allergic reaction to injected contrast dye.

    * The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. If a person with an iodine allergy is given this type of contrast, nausea or vomiting, sneezing, itching, or hives may occur.
    * If you absolutely must be given such contrast, you may need to get antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test.
    * The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. Those with kidney disease or diabetes may need to receive extra fluids after the test to help flush the iodine out of the body. 

Rarely, the dye may cause a life-threatening allergic response called
anaphylaxis. If you have any trouble breathing during the test, you should
notify the scanner operator immediately. Scanners come with an intercom and
speakers, so the operator can hear you at all times.

## Alternative Names

CAT scan - shoulder; Computed axial tomography scan - shoulder; Computed
tomography scan - shoulder; CT scan - shoulder

## Patient Instructions

    * Rotator cuff exercises
    * Rotator cuff - self-care
    * Shoulder replacement - discharge 
    * Shoulder surgery - discharge 
    * Using your shoulder after replacement surgery

## References

Perez EA. Fractures of the shoulder, arm, and forearm. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

Shaw AS, Prokop M. Computed tomography. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 4.

Sheah K, Bredella MA. Shoulder. In: Haaga JR, Boll DT, eds. _CT and MRI of the
Whole Body_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DislocatedShoulder_thumb.jpg)Dislocated
Shoulder _Read more_

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Shoulder
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

