Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000524.htm    
                                Description: The shoulder is a ball and socket joint. This means the round top of your arm bone (the ball) fits into the groove in your shoulder blade (the socket).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dislocated shoulder - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000524.htm

# Dislocated shoulder - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The shoulder is a ball and socket joint. This means the round top of your arm
bone (the ball) fits into the groove in your shoulder blade (the socket).

When you have a dislocated shoulder, it means the entire ball is out of the
socket.

When you have a partly dislocated shoulder, it means only part of the ball is
out of the socket. This is called a shoulder subluxation.

## About Your Injury

You most likely dislocated your shoulder from a sports injury or accident,
such as a fall.

You have likely injured (stretched or torn) some of the muscles, tendons
(tissues that connect muscle to bone), or ligaments (tissues that connect bone
to bone) of the shoulder joint. All of these tissues help keep your arm in
place.

Having a dislocated shoulder is very painful. It is very hard to move your
arm. You may also have:

    * Some swelling and bruising to your shoulder
    * Numbness, tingling, or weakness in your arm, hand, or fingers 

## What to Expect

Surgery may or may not be needed after your dislocation. It depends on your
age and how often your shoulder has been dislocated. You may also need surgery
if you have a job in which you need to use your shoulder a lot or need to be
safe.

In the emergency room, your arm was placed back (relocated or reduced) into
your shoulder socket.

    * You likely received medicine to relax your muscles and block your pain.
    * Afterward, your arm was placed in a shoulder immobilizer for it to heal properly.

You will have a greater chance of dislocating your shoulder again. With each
injury, it takes less force to do this.

If your shoulder continues to partly or fully dislocate in the future, you may
need surgery to repair or tighten the ligaments that hold the bones in your
shoulder joint together.

## To Relieve Your Symptoms

To reduce swelling:

    * Put an ice pack on the area right after you injure it.
    * DO NOT move your arm.
    * Keep your arm close to your body.
    * DO NOT place rings on your fingers until your doctor tells you it is safe to do so. 

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol).

    * Talk with your health care provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the medicine bottle or by your provider.
    * DO NOT give aspirin to children. 

## Activity

Your provider will:

    * Tell you when and for how long to remove the splint for short periods.
    * Show you gentle exercises to help keep your shoulder from tightening or freezing up. 

After your shoulder has healed for 2 to 4 weeks, you will be referred for
physical therapy.

    * A physical therapist will teach you exercises to stretch your shoulder. This will make sure that you have good shoulder movement.
    * As you continue to heal, you will learn exercises to increase the strength of your shoulder muscles and ligaments. 

DO NOT return to activities that place too much stress on your shoulder joint.
Ask your provider first. These activities include most sports activities using
your arms, gardening, heavy lifting, or even reaching above shoulder level.

Ask your provider when you can expect to return to your normal activities.

## Follow-up

See a bone specialist (orthopedist) in a week or less after your shoulder
joint is put back into place. This doctor will check the bones, muscles,
tendons, and ligaments in your shoulder.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

    * You have swelling or pain in your shoulder, arm, or hand that becomes worse
    * Your arm or hand turns purple
    * You have a fever 

## Alternative Names

Shoulder dislocation - aftercare; Shoulder subluxation - aftercare; Shoulder
reduction - aftercare; Glenohumeral joint dislocation

## References

Phillips BB. Recurrent dislocations. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 47.

Reider B, Davies GJ, Provencher MT. Anterior shoulder instability. In: Reider
B, Davies GJ, Provencher MT, eds. _Orthopaedic Rehabilitation of the Athlete_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 1.

Thompson SR, Al-Saati MF, Litchfield RB. Anterior shoulder instability. In:
Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 46.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dislocated Shoulder
    * Dislocations

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

