Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007689.htm    
                                Description: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that causes AIDS. When a person becomes infected with HIV, the virus attacks and weakens the immune system. As the immune system weakens, the person is at    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HIV/AIDS in pregnant women and infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007689.htm

# HIV/AIDS in pregnant women and infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that causes AIDS. When a
person becomes infected with HIV, the virus attacks and weakens the immune
system. As the immune system weakens, the person is at risk of getting life-
threatening infections and cancers. When that happens, the illness is called
AIDS.

HIV can be transmitted to the fetus or the newborn during pregnancy, during
labor or delivery, or by breastfeeding.

This article is about HIV/AIDS in pregnant women and infants.

## Causes

Most children with HIV get the virus when it passes from an HIV-positive
mother to the child. This can occur during pregnancy, childbirth, or when
breastfeeding.

Only blood, semen, vaginal fluids, and breast milk have been shown to transmit
infection to others.

The virus is NOT spread to infants by:

    * Casual contact, such as hugging or touching
    * Touching items that were touched by a person infected with the virus, such as towels or washcloths
    * Saliva, sweat, or tears that is NOT mixed with the blood of an infected person

## Symptoms

Most infants born to HIV-positive women in the United States do NOT become HIV
positive if the mother and infant have good prenatal and postpartum care.

Infants who are infected with HIV often have no symptoms for the first 2 to 3
months. Once symptoms develop, they can vary. Early symptoms may include:

    * Yeast (candida) infections in the mouth
    * Failure to gain weight and grow
    * Swollen lymph glands
    * Swollen salivary glands
    * Enlarged spleen or liver
    * Ear and sinus infections
    * Upper respiratory tract infections
    * Being slow to walk, crawl, or speak compared to healthy babies
    * Diarrhea

Early treatment often prevents the HIV infection from progressing.

Without treatment, a child's immune system weakens over time, and infections
that are uncommon in healthy children develop. These are severe infections in
the body. They can be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, or protozoa. At this
point, the illness has become full-blown AIDS.

## Exams and Tests

Here are the tests a pregnant mother and her baby may have to diagnose HIV:

TESTS TO DIAGNOSE HIV IN PREGNANT WOMEN

All pregnant women should have a screening test for HIV along with other
prenatal tests. Women at high risk should be screened a second time during the
third trimester.

Mothers who have not been tested can receive a rapid HIV test during labor.

Woman known to be HIV positive during pregnancy will have regular blood tests,
including:

    * CD4 counts
    * Viral load test, to check how much HIV is in the blood
    * A test to see if the virus will respond to the medicines used to treat HIV (called a resistance test)

TESTS TO DIAGNOSE HIV IN BABIES AND INFANTS

Infants born to women infected with HIV should be tested for HIV infection.
This test looks for how much of the HIV virus is in the body. In infants born
to HIV positive mothers, HIV testing is done:

    * 14 to 21 days after birth
    * At 1 to 2 months
    * At 4 to 6 months

If the result of 2 tests is negative, the infant does NOT have an HIV
infection. If the results of any test are positive, the baby has HIV.

Babies who are at very high risk for HIV infection may be tested at birth.

## Treatment

HIV/AIDS is treated with antiretroviral therapy (ART). These medicines stop
the virus from multiplying.

TREATING PREGNANT WOMEN

Treating pregnant women with HIV prevents children from becoming infected.

    * If a woman tests positive during pregnancy, she will receive ART while pregnant. Most often she will receive a three-drug regimen.
    * The risk of these ART drugs for the baby in the womb is low. The mother may have another ultrasound at the second trimester.
    * HIV may be found in a woman when she goes into labor, particularly if she has not previously received prenatal care. If so, she will be treated with antiretroviral drugs right away. Sometimes these drugs will be given through a vein (IV).
    * If the first positive test is during labor, receiving ART right away during labor can reduce the rate of infection in children to about 10%. 

TREATING BABIES AND INFANTS

Infants born to infected mothers start receiving ART within 6 to 12 hours
after birth. One or more antiretroviral drugs should be continued for at least
6 weeks after birth.

BREASTFEEDING

HIV-positive women should not breastfeed. This holds true even for women who
are taking HIV medicines. Doing so may pass HIV to the baby through breast
milk.

## Support Groups

The challenges of being a caretaker of a child with HIV/AIDS can often be
helped by joining a support group. In these groups, members share common
experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The risk of a mother transmitting HIV during pregnancy or during labor is low
for mothers identified and treated early in pregnancy. When treated, the
chance of her baby being infected is less than 1%. Because of early testing
and treatment, there are fewer than 200 babies born with HIV in the United
States per year.

If a woman's HIV status is not found until the time of labor, proper treatment
can reduce the rate of infection in infants to about 10%.

Children with HIV/AIDS will need to take ART for the rest of their life. The
treatment does not cure the infection. The medicines only work as long as they
are taken every day. With proper treatment, children with HIV/AIDS can live a
nearly normal lifespan.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have HIV or are at risk for HIV, AND you
become pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant.

## Prevention

HIV-positive women who might become pregnant should talk to their provider
about the risk to their unborn child. They should also discuss methods to
prevent their baby from becoming infected, such as taking ARV during
pregnancy. The earlier the woman starts medicines, the lower the chance of
infection in the child.

Women with HIV should not breastfeed their baby. This will help prevent
passing HIV to the infant through breast milk.  

## Alternative Names

HIV infection - children; Human immunodeficiency virus - children; Acquired
immune deficiency syndrome - children; Pregnancy - HIV; Maternal HIV;
Perinatal - HIV

## Images

    * ![Primary HIV infection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17268t.jpg)Primary HIV infection

## References

AIDSinfo website. Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric
HIV infection. aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/2/pediatric-treatment-
guidelines/0#. Updated May 22, 2018. Accessed October 8, 2018.

AIDSinfo website. Recommendations for use of antiretroviral drugs in pregnant
HIV-1-infected women for maternal health and interventions to reduce perinatal
HIV transmission in the United States.
aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/3/perinatal-guidelines/0#. Updated May 30,
2018. Accessed October 8, 2018.

Weinberg GA, Siberry GK. Pediatric human immunodeficiency virus infection. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 129.

Yogev R, Chadwick EG. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (human
immunodeficiency virus). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 276.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![HIV/AIDS and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDSandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

