Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000581.htm    
                                Description: Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is cancer of the lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is found in the lymph nodes, spleen, and other organs of the immune system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Non-Hodgkin lymphoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000581.htm

# Non-Hodgkin lymphoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is cancer of the lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is
found in the lymph nodes, spleen, and other organs of the immune system.

White blood cells, called lymphocytes, are found in lymph tissue. They help
prevent infections. Most lymphomas start in a type of white blood cell called
the B lymphocyte, or B cell.

## Causes

For most people, the cause of NHL is unknown. But lymphomas may develop in
people with weakened immune systems, including people who have had an organ
transplant or people with HIV infection.

NHL most often affects adults. Men develop NHL more often than women. Children
can also develop some forms of NHL.

There are many types of NHL. One classification (grouping) is by how fast the
cancer spreads. The cancer may be low grade (slow growing), intermediate
grade, or high grade (fast growing).

NHL is further grouped by how the cells look under the microscope, what type
of white blood cell it originates from, and whether there are certain DNA
changes in the tumor cells themselves.

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on what area of the body is affected by the cancer and how
fast the cancer is growing.

Symptoms may include:

    * Drenching night sweats
    * Fever and chills that come and go
    * Itching
    * Swollen lymph nodes in the neck, underarms, groin, or other areas
    * Weight loss
    * Coughing or shortness of breath if the cancer affects the thymus gland or lymph nodes in the chest, putting pressure on the windpipe (trachea) or its branches
    * Abdominal pain or swelling, leading to loss of appetite, constipation, nausea, and vomiting
    * Headache, concentration problems, personality changes, or seizures if the cancer affects the brain 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and check body areas
with lymph nodes to feel if they are swollen.

The disease may be diagnosed after biopsy of suspected tissue, usually a lymph
node biopsy.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood test to check protein levels, liver function, kidney function, and uric acid level
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scans of the chest, abdomen and pelvis
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * PET scan

If tests show you have NHL, more tests will be done to see how far it has
spread. This is called staging. Staging helps guide future treatment and
follow-up.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on:

    * The specific type of NHL
    * The stage when you are first diagnosed
    * Your age and overall health
    * Symptoms, including weight loss, fever, and night sweats

You may receive chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or both. Or you may not need
immediate treatment. Your provider can tell you more about your specific
treatment.

Radioimmunotherapy may be used in some cases. This involves linking a
radioactive substance to an antibody that targets the cancerous cells and
injecting the substance into the body.

A type of chemotherapy called targeted therapyÂ may be tried. It uses a drug
to focus on specific targets (molecules) in or on cancer cells. Using these
targets, the drug disables the cancer cells so they cannot spread.

High-dose chemotherapy may be given when NHL recurs or fails to respond to the
first treatment administered. This is followed by an autologous stem cell
transplant (using your own stem cells) to rescue the bone marrow after the
high-dose chemotherapy. With certain types of NHL, these treatment steps are
used at first remission to try and achieve a cure.

Blood transfusions or platelet transfusions may be required if blood counts
are low.

You and your provider may need to manage other concerns during your leukemia
treatment, including:

    * Having chemotherapy at home
    * Managing your petsÂ during chemotherapy
    * Bleeding problems
    * Dry mouth
    * Eating enough calories

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Low-grade NHL often cannot be cured by chemotherapy alone. Low-grade NHL
progresses slowly and may take many years before the disease gets worse or
even requires treatment. The need for treatment is usually determined by
symptoms, how fast the disease is progressing, and if blood counts are low.

Chemotherapy may cure many types of high-grade lymphomas. If the cancer does
not respond to chemotherapy, the disease can cause rapid death.

## Possible Complications

NHL itself and its treatments can lead to health problems. These include:

    * Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, a condition in which red blood cells are destroyed by the immune system
    * Infection
    * Side effects of chemotherapy drugs 

Keep following up with a provider who knows about monitoring and preventing
these complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of this disorder.

If you have NHL, call your provider if you experience persistent fever or
other signs of infection.

## Alternative Names

Lymphoma - non-Hodgkin; Lymphocytic lymphoma; Histiocytic lymphoma;
Lymphoblastic lymphoma; Cancer - non-Hodgkin lymphoma; NHL

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Lymphoma, malignant - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1186t.jpg)Lymphoma, malignant - CT scan
    * ![Immune system structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8932t.jpg)Immune system structures

## References

Abramson JS. Non-Hodgkin lymphomas. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan
MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 103.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma treatment (PDQ)
- health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/hp/adult-nhl-
treatment-pdq. Updated September 18, 2019. Accessed February 13, 2020.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma treatment
(PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/hp/child-
nhl-treatment-pdq. Updated February 5, 2020. Accessed February 13, 2020.

## Review Date 2/6/2020

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

