Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001308.htm    
                                Description: Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is a very fast growing form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Burkitt lymphoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001308.htm

# Burkitt lymphoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is a very fast growing form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

## Causes

BL was first discovered in children in certain parts of Africa. It also occurs
in the United States.

The African type of BL is closely associated with the Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV), the main cause of infectious mononucleosis. The North American form of
BL is not linked to EBV.

People with HIV/AIDS have an increased risk for this condition. BL is most
often seen in males.

## Symptoms

BL may first be noticed as a swelling of the lymph nodes (glands) in the head
and neck. These swollen lymph nodes are often painless, but can grow very
rapidly.

In the types commonly seen in the United States, the cancer often starts in
the belly area (abdomen). The disease can also start in the ovaries, testes,
brain, kidneys, liver, and spinal fluid.

Other general symptoms may include:

    * Fever 
    * Night sweats 
    * Unexplained weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests that may be done
include:

    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Examination of the spinal fluid
    * Lymph node biopsy
    * PET scan

## Treatment

Chemotherapy is used to treat this type of cancer. If the cancer does not
respond to chemotherapy alone, aÂ bone marrow transplant may be done.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

More than one half of people with BL can be cured with intensive chemotherapy.
The cure rate may be lower if the cancer spreads to the bone marrow or spinal
fluid. The outlook is poor if the cancer comes back after a remission or does
not go into remissionÂ as a result ofÂ the first cycle of chemotherapy.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications of BL include:

    * Complications of treatment
    * Spread of the cancer 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of BL.

## Alternative Names

B-cell lymphoma; High-grade B-cell lymphoma; Small noncleaved cell lymphoma

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Lymphoma, malignant - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1186t.jpg)Lymphoma, malignant - CT scan

## References

Gallagher CJ, Smith M, Shamash J. Malignant disease. In: Kumar P, Clark M,
eds. _Kumar and Clark's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

Gascoyne RD, Siebert R, Connors JM, Kluin PM. Burkitt's lymphoma and its
mimics. In: Jaffe ES, Arber DA, Campo E, Harris NL, Quintanilla-Martinez L,
eds. _Hematopathology_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma treatment (PDQ)
â health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/hp/adult-nhl-
treatment-pdq#section/all. Updated April 20, 2018. Accessed May 7, 2018.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

