Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003593.htm    
                                Description: Urine immunofixation is a test to look for abnormal proteins in urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immunofixation - urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003593.htm

# Immunofixation - urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine immunofixation is a test to look for abnormal proteins in urine.

## How the Test is Performed

You will need to supply a clean-catch (midstream) urine sample.

    * Clean the area around where urine leaves the body. Men or boys should wipe the head of the penis. Women or girls should wash the area between the lips of the vagina with soapy water and rinse well.
    * Allow a small amount to fall into the toilet bowl as you start to urinate. This clears substances that may contaminate the sample. Catch about 1 to 2 ounces (30 to 60 milliliters) of urine in the clean container that you are given.
    * Remove the container from the urine stream.
    * Give the container to the health care provider or assistant. 

For an infant:

    * Thoroughly wash the area where the urine exits the body.
    * Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).
    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the labia.
    * Diaper as usual over the secured bag. 

It may take more than one try to get a sample from an infant. An active baby
can move the bag, so that the urine goes into the diaper. Check the infant
often and change the bag after the urine has been collected. Drain the urine
from the bag into the container given to you by your provider.

Deliver the sample to the lab or your provider as soon as possible after it is
done.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often used to check for the presence of certain proteins
called monoclonal immunoglobulins. These proteins are linked to multiple
myeloma and WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia. The test is also done with a blood
test to check for a monoclonal immunoglobulin in the serum.

## Normal Results

Having no monoclonal immunoglobulins in the urine is a normal result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The presence of monoclonal proteins may indicate:

    * Cancers that affect the immune system, such as multiple myeloma or WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia
    * Other cancers

## Considerations

Immunofixation is similar to urine immunoelectrophoresis, but it may give more
rapid results.

## References

McPherson RA, Riley RS, Massey HD. Laboratory evaluation of immunoglobulin
function and humoral immunity. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

Treon SP, Castillo JJ, Hunter ZR, Merlini G. WaldenstrÃ¶m
macroglobulinemia/lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 87.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![Multiple
Myeloma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleMyeloma_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Myeloma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

