Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000588.htm    
                                Description: WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia (WM) is a cancer of the B lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). WM is associated with the overproduction of proteins called IgM antibodies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000588.htm

# WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia (WM) is a cancer of the B lymphocytes (a type
of white blood cell). WM is associated with the overproduction of proteins
called IgM antibodies.

## Causes

WM is a result of a condition called lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. This is a
cancer of the white blood cells, in which the B immune cells start dividing
rapidly. The exact cause of too much production of the IgM antibody is
unknown. Hepatitis C may increase the risk of WM. Gene mutations are often
found in the malignant B cells.

Production of excess IgM antibodies can cause several types of problems:

    * Hyperviscosity, which causes the blood to become too thick.. This can make it harder for blood to flow through small blood vessels.
    * Neuropathy, or nerve damage, when the IgM antibody reacts with nerve tissue.
    * Anemia, when the IgM antibody binds to red blood cells.
    * Kidney disease, when the IgM antibody deposits in kidney tissue.
    * Cryoglobulinemia and vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels) when the IgM antibody forms immune complexes with cold exposure.

WM is very rare. Most people with this condition are over 65 years of age.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of WM may include any of the following:

    * Bleeding of the gums and nosebleeds
    * Blurred or decreased vision
    * Bluish skinÂ in the fingers after cold exposure
    * Dizziness or confusion
    * Easy bruising of the skin
    * Fatigue
    * Diarrhea
    * Numbness, tingling, or burning pain in the hands, feet, fingers, toes, ears, or nose
    * Rash
    * Swollen glands
    * Unintentional weight loss
    * Vision loss in one eye 

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination may reveal a swollen spleen, liver, and lymph nodes. An
eye exam may show enlarged veins in the retina or retinal bleeding
(hemorrhages).

A CBC shows a low number of red blood cells and platelets. Blood chemistryÂ
may show evidence of kidney disease.

A test called serum protein electrophoresis shows an increased level of the
IgM antibody. Levels are often higher than 300 milligrams per deciliter
(mg/dL), or 3000 mg/L. An immunofixation test will be done to show that the
IgM antibody is derived from a single cell type, (clonal).

A serum viscosity test can tell if the blood has become thick. Symptoms
usually occur when the blood is four times thicker than normal.

A bone marrow biopsy will show increased numbers of abnormal cells that look
like both lymphocytes and plasma cells.

Additional tests that may be done include:

    * 24-hour urine protein
    * Total protein
    * Immunofixation in urine
    * T (thymus derived) lymphocyte count
    * Bone x-rays

## Treatment

Some people with WM who have increased IgM antibodies do not have symptoms.
This condition is known as smoldering WM. No treatment is needed other than
careful follow-up.

The treatment aim in people with symptoms is to decrease the symptoms and the
risk of developing organ damage. There is no current standard treatment. So
your provider may suggest that you participate in a clinical trial.

Plasmapheresis removesÂ IgM antibodies from the blood.. It also quickly
controls the symptoms caused by blood thickening.

Medicines may include corticosteroids, a combination of chemotherapy medicines
and the monoclonal antibody to B cells, rituximab.

Autologous stem cell transplant may be recommended for some people with
otherwise good health.

People who have a low number of red or white blood cells or platelets may need
transfusions or antibiotics.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The average survival is about 5 years. Some people live more than 10 years.

In some people, the disorder may produce few symptoms and progress slowly.

## Possible Complications

Complications of WM may include:

    * Changes in mental function, possibly leading to coma
    * Heart failure
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding or malabsorption
    * Vision problems
    * Hives

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of WM develop.

## Alternative Names

WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia; Macroglobulinemia - primary; Lymphoplasmacytic
lymphoma; Monoclonal macroglobulinemia

## Images

    * ![Waldenstroms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1500t.jpg)WaldenstrÃ¶m
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Kapoor P, Ansell SM, Fonseca R, et al. Diagnosis and management of
WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia: Mayo stratification of macroglobulinemia and
risk-adapted therapy (mSMART) guidelines 2016. _JAMA Oncol_.
2017;3(9):1257-1265. PMID: 28056114 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28056114.

Rajkumar SV. Plasma cell disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 187.

Treon SP, Castillo JJ, Hunter ZR, Merlini G. WaldenstrÃ¶m
macroglobulinemia/lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 87.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

