Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001086.htm    
                                Description: Mediastinal tumors are growths that form in the mediastinum. This is an area in the middle of the chest that separates the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mediastinal tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001086.htm

# Mediastinal tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mediastinal tumors are growths that form in the mediastinum. This is an area
in the middle of the chest that separates the lungs.

## Causes

The mediastinum is the part of the chest that lies between the sternum and the
spinal column, and between the lungs. This area contains the heart, large
blood vessels, windpipe (trachea), thymus gland, esophagus, and connective
tissues. The mediastinum is divided into three sections:

    * Anterior (front) 
    * Middle 
    * Posterior (back) 

Mediastinal tumors are rare.

The common location for tumors in the mediastinum depends on the age of the
person. In children, tumors are more common in the posterior mediastinum.
These tumors often begin in the nerves and are noncancerous (benign).

Most mediastinal tumors in adults occur in the anterior mediastinum. They are
usually cancerous (malignant) lymphomas, germ cell tumors, or thymomas. These
tumors are most common in middle aged and older adults.

## Symptoms

Almost one half of mediastinal tumors cause no symptoms and are found on a
chest x-ray done for another reason. Symptoms that do occur are due to
pressure on (compression of) local structures and may include:

    * Chest pain
    * Fever andÂ chills 
    * Cough
    * Coughing up blood (hemoptysis)
    * Hoarseness
    * Night sweats
    * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

A medical history and physical examination may show:

    * Fever
    * High-pitched breathing sound (stridor)
    * Swollen or tender lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy)
    * Unintentional weight loss
    * Wheezing

Further tests that may be done include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT-guided needle biopsy
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Mediastinoscopy with biopsy
    * MRI of the chest

## Treatment

Treatment for mediastinal tumors depends on the type of tumor and symptoms:

    * Thymic cancers are treated with surgery. It may be followed by radiation or chemotherapy, depending on the stage of the tumor and the success of the surgery.
    * Germ cell tumors are usually treated with chemotherapy.
    * For lymphomas, chemotherapy is the treatment of choice, and is possibly followed by radiation.
    * For neurogenic tumors of the posterior mediastinum, surgery is the main treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the type of tumor. Different tumors respond differently
to chemotherapy and radiation.

## Possible Complications

Complications of mediastinal tumors include:

    * Spinal cord compression
    * Spread to nearby structures such as the heart, lining around the heart (pericardium), and great vessels (aorta and vena cava)

Radiation, surgery, and chemotherapy can all have serious complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice symptoms of a mediastinal tumor.

## Alternative Names

Thymoma - mediastinal; Lymphoma - mediastinal

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs

## References

Cheng GS, Varghese TK, Park DR. Mediastinal tumors and cysts. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

Mccool FD. Diseases of the diaphragm, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 99.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![Thymus Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThymusCancer_thumb.jpg)Thymus
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

