Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003329.htm    
                                Description: B and T cell screen is a laboratory test to determine the amount of T and B cells (lymphocytes) in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

B and T cell screen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003329.htm

# B and T cell screen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

B and T cell screen is a laboratory test to determine the amount of T and B
cells (lymphocytes) in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

Blood could also be obtained by capillary sample (fingerstick or heelstick in
infants).

After the blood is drawn, it goes through a two-step process. First, the
lymphocytes are separated from other blood parts. Once the cells are
separated, identifiers are added to distinguish between T and B cells.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your health care provider if you have had any of the following, which
might affect your T and B cell count:

    * Chemotherapy
    * HIV/AIDS
    * Radiation therapy
    * Recent or current infection
    * Steroid therapy
    * Stress
    * Surgery

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain,
while others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of certain diseases that
weaken the immune system. It may also be used to distinguish between cancerous
and noncancerous disease, particularly cancers that involve the blood and bone
marrow.

The test may also be used to determine how well treatment for certain
conditions is working.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal T and B cell counts suggest a possible disease. Further testing is
needed to confirm a diagnosis.

An increased T cell count may be due to:

    * Cancer of white blood cell called a lymphoblast (acute lymphoblastic leukemia)
    * Cancer of white blood cells called lymphocytes (chronic lymphocytic leukemia)
    * A viral infection called infectious mononucleosis
    * Blood cancer that starts in the plasma cells in the bone marrow (multiple myeloma)
    * Syphilis, an STD
    * Toxoplasmosis, an infection due to a parasite
    * Tuberculosis 

An increased B cell count may be due to:

    * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia
    * DiGeorge syndrome
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia

A decreased T cell count may be due to:

    * Congenital T-cell deficiency disease, such as Nezelof syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, or Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome
    * Acquired T-cell deficiency states, such as HIV infection or HTLV-1 infection
    * B cell proliferative disorders, such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia or Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia 

A decreased B cell count may be due to:

    * HIV/AIDS
    * Acute lymphoblastic leukemia
    * Immunodeficiency disorders
    * Treatment with certain medicines 

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

E-rosetting; T and B lymphocyte assays; B and T lymphocyte assays

## References

Liebman HA,Tulpule A. Hematologic manifestations of HIV/AIDS. In: Hoffman R,
Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

Riley RS. Laboratory evaluation of the cellular immune system. In: McPherson
RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![Childhood
Leukemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodLeukemia_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Leukemia _Read more_

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Chronic
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

