Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007686.htm    
                                Description: &#10; &#10;Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is cancer of the lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is found in the lymph nodes, spleen, tonsils, bone marrow, and other organs of the immune system. The immune system protects us    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Non-Hodgkin lymphoma in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007686.htm

# Non-Hodgkin lymphoma in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is cancer of the lymph tissue. Lymph tissue is
found in the lymph nodes, spleen, tonsils, bone marrow, and other organs of
the immune system. The immune system protects us against diseases and
infections.

This article is about NHL in children.  

## Causes

NHL tends to occur more often in adults. But children do get some types of
NHL. NHL occurs more often in boys. It usually doesn't occur in children
younger than age 3.

The exact cause of NHL in children is not known. But, the development of
lymphomas in children has been associated with:

    * Past cancer treatment (radiation treatment, chemotherapy)
    * A weak immune system from an organ transplant
    * Epstein-Barr virus, the virus that causes mononucleosis
    * HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) infection

There are many types of NHL. One classification (grouping) is by how fast the
cancer spreads. The cancer may be low grade (slow growing), intermediate
grade, or high grade (fast growing).

NHL is further grouped by:

    * How the cells look under the microscope
    * What type of white blood cell it originates from
    * Whether there are certain DNA changes in the tumor cells themselves

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on which area of the body is affected by the cancer and how
fast the cancer is growing.

Symptoms may include:

    * Swollen lymph nodes in the neck, underarm, stomach, or groin
    * Painless swelling or lump in the testicle
    * Swelling of the head, neck, arms or upper body
    * Trouble swallowing
    * Trouble breathing
    * Wheezing
    * Persistent cough
    * Swelling in the belly
    * Night sweats
    * Weight loss
    * Fatigue 
    * Unexplained fever 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take your child's medical history. The provider
will do a physical exam to check for swollen lymph nodes.

The provider may perform these lab tests when NHL is suspected:

    * Blood chemistry tests including protein levels, liver function tests, kidney function tests, and uric acid level
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * ESR (sed rate)
    * Chest x-ray, which often shows signs of a mass in the area between the lungs

A lymph node biopsy confirms the diagnosis for NHL.

If a biopsy shows that your child has NHL, more tests will be done to see how
far the cancer has spread. This is called staging. Staging helps guide future
treatment and follow-up.

    * CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * PET scan

Immunophenotyping is a laboratory test used to identify cells, based on the
types of antigens or markers on the surface of the cell. This test is used to
diagnose the specific type of lymphoma by comparing the cancer cells to normal
cells of the immune system.

## Treatment

You may choose to seek care at a children's cancer center.

Treatment will depend on:

    * The type of NHL (there are many types of NHL)
    * Stage (where the cancer has spread)
    * Your child's age and overall health
    * Your child's symptoms, including weight loss, fever, and night sweats

Chemotherapy is most often the first treatment:

    * Your child may need to stay in the hospital at first. But most of the treatment for NHL can be given in a clinic, and your child will still live at home.
    * Chemotherapy is given mainly into the veins (IV), but some chemotherapy is given by mouth.

Your child may also receive radiation therapy using high-powered x-rays at
cancer-affected areas.

Other treatments may include:

    * Targeted therapy that uses drugs or antibodies to kill cancer cells
    * High-dose chemotherapy may be followed by stem cell transplant (using your child's own stem cells)
    * Surgery to remove the cancer may be needed in some cases

Having a child with cancer is one of the hardest things you will ever deal
with as a parent. Explaining what it means to have cancer to your child will
not be easy. You will also need to learn how to get help and support so you
can cope more easily.

## Support Groups

Having a child with cancer can be stressful. Joining a support group where
other parents or families share common experiences may help ease your stress.

    * Leukemia and Lymphoma Society -- www.lls.org
    * National Cancer Institute -- www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/patient/child-nhl-treatment-pdq

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most forms of NHL are curable. Even late stages of NHL are curable in
children.

Your child will need to have regular exams and imaging tests for years after
treatment to make sure the tumor does not come back.

Even if the tumor comes back, there is a good chance of a cure.

Regular follow-ups will also help the health care team check for signs of the
cancer returning and for any long-term treatment effects.  

## Possible Complications

Treatments for NHL may have complications. Side effects of chemotherapy or
radiation therapy may appear months or years after treatment. These are called
"late effects." It is important to talk about treatment effects with your
health care team. What to expect in terms of late effects depends on the
specific treatments your child receives.Â The concern of late effects must be
balanced by the need to treat and cure the cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if your child has swollen lymph nodes with
unexplained fever that does not go away or has other symptoms of NHL.

If your child has NHL, call the provider if your child has a persistent fever
or other signs of infection.

## Alternative Names

Lymphoma - non-Hodgkin - children; Lymphoblastic lymphoma - children; Burkitt
lymphoma - children; Large cell lymphomas - children, Cancer - non-Hodgkin
lymphoma - children; Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma - children; Mature B cell
lymphoma - children; Anaplastic large cell lymphoma

## References

American Cancer Society website. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma in children.
www.cancer.org/cancer/childhood-non-hodgkin-lymphoma.html. Updated August 1,
2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Hochberg J, Giulino-Roth L, Cairo MS. Lymphoma. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 496.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma treatment
(PDQ) - health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lymphoma/hp/child-
nhl-treatment-pdq. Updated March 30, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

