

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Laboratory Testing

Minus

Related Pages

On this Page

What are the antibiotic susceptibility patterns of clinical _S. aureus_
isolates?

How should clinical laboratories test for MRSA?

Is it difficult to detect oxacillin/methicillin resistance?

Can all susceptibility tests detect MRSA?

Are there additional tests to detect oxacillin/methicillin resistance?

How is the _mecA_ gene involved in the mechanism of resistance?

What are the breakpoints for testing the susceptibility of staphylococci to
oxacillin?

Why are oxacillin and cefoxitin tested instead of methicillin?

If oxacillin and cefoxitin are tested, why are the isolates called "MRSA"
instead of "ORSA"?

What are the antibiotic susceptibility patterns of clinical _S. aureus_
isolates?

Approximately 10% of _S. aureus_ isolates in the United States are susceptible
to penicillin. However, many _S._ _aureus_ strains, while resistant to
penicillin, remain susceptible to penicillinase-stable penicillins, such as
oxacillin and methicillin. Strains that are oxacillin and methicillin
resistant, historically termed methicillin-resistant _S. aureus_ (MRSA), are
resistant to all ß-lactam agents, including cephalosporins and carbapenems,
although they may be susceptible to the newest class of MRSA-active
cephalosporins (e.g, ceftaroline). Strains of MRSA causing healthcare-
associated infections are often resistant to other commonly used antimicrobial
agents, including erythromycin, clindamycin and fluoroquinolones, while
strains causing community-associated infections are often resistant only to
ß-lactam agents, erythromycin and occasionally to fluoroquinolones. Since
1996, MRSA strains with decreased susceptibility to vancomycin (minimum
inhibitory concentration [MIC], 4 - 8 μg/ml) and strains fully resistant to
vancomycin (MIC ≥ 16 μg/ml) have been reported.

Top of Page

How should clinical laboratories test for MRSA?

In addition to broth microdilution testing, the Clinical and Laboratory
Standards Institute (CLSI), recommends the cefoxitin disk diffusion test or a
plate containing 6 μg/ml of oxacillin in Mueller-Hinton agar supplemented with
4% NaCl as alternative methods of testing for MRSA. For specific details on
these methods, see CLSI Approved Standard M100. In addition, there are FDA-
approved assays for molecular detection of the _mecA_ gene and commercially
available chromogenic agars that can be used for MRSA detection. Finally,
latex agglutination or immunochromatographic membrane tests for PBP2a can be
used to detect MRSA.

Top of Page

**Laboratory Testing Resources**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use of an Inferred PFGE Algorithm, Emerging Infections Program/Active Bacterial Core (ABCs) Surveillance Invasive MRSA Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Protocol for Molecular Typing of _S. aureus_ by PFGE Cdc-pdf[PDF - 24 pages]

**CLSI Approved Standard**

Performance standards for antibiotic susceptibility testing. CLSI approved
standard M100External

**Source**

Becker, K et al. 2019. Staphylococcus, Micrococcus, and Other Catalase-
Positive Cocci. In James H. Jorgensen, Michael A. Pfaller, Karen C. Carroll,
Guido Funke, Michael A. Pfaller, Marie Louise Landry, Robin Patel, Alexander
J. McAdam, Sandra S. Richter, David W. Warnock (eds.) Manual of Clinical
Microbiology 12th edition, ASM Press, Washington, D.C.External

Is it difficult to detect oxacillin/methicillin resistance?

MRSA is resistant to all β-lactams because of the presence of _mecA_ , a gene
that produces a pencillin binding protein (PBP2a) with low affinity for
β-lactam antibiotics. Mechanism of oxacillin resistance other than _mecA_ are
rare. Accurate detection of oxacillin/methicillin resistance can be difficult
due to the presence of two subpopulations (one susceptible and the other
resistant) that may coexist within a culture of staphylococci (see Bannerman,
TL. 2003). All cells in a culture may carry the genetic information ( _mecA_ )
for resistance, but only a small number may express the resistance _in vitro_.
This phenomenon is termed heteroresistance and occurs in staphylococci
resistant to penicillinase-stable penicillins, such as oxacillin.

Cells expressing heteroresistance grow more slowly than the oxacillin-
susceptible population and may be missed at temperatures above 35°C. This is
why CLSI recommends incubating isolates being tested against oxacillin at
33-35°C (maximum of 35°C) for a full 24 hours before reading (see CLSI
Approved Standard). Isolates tested against cefoxitin using either disk
diffusion or broth microdilution should also be incubated at 33-35°C but can
be read after 16-18 and 16-20 hours, respectively.

Top of Page

Can all susceptibility tests detect MRSA?

When used correctly, broth-based and agar-based tests usually can detect MRSA.
The cefoxitin disk diffusion method can be used in addition to routine
susceptibility test methods or as a back-up method.

Top of Page

Are there additional tests to detect oxacillin/methicillin resistance?

Nucleic acid amplification tests, such as the polymerase chain reaction (PCR),
can be used for direct detection of _mecA_ , the most common gene mediating
oxacillin resistance in staphylococci. However, _mecA_ PCR tests will not
detect novel resistance mechanisms such as _mecC_ or uncommon phenotypes such
as borderline-resistant oxacillin resistance. An alternative method for
detection of MRSA is the use of anti-PBP2a monoclonal antibodies available as
latex agglutination or immunochromatographic membrane assays. Finally, there
are commercially available chromogenic agars that can be used for MRSA
detection.

Top of Page

How is the _mecA_ gene involved in the mechanism of resistance?

Staphylococcal resistance to oxacillin/methicillin occurs when an isolate
produces an altered penicillin-binding protein, PBP2a, which is encoded by the
_mecA_  gene. The variant penicillin-binding protein binds β-lactams with
lower avidity, which results in resistance to this class of antibiotic agents.

Top of Page

What are the breakpoints for testing the susceptibility of staphylococci to
oxacillin?

The CLSI clinical breakpoints for _S. aureus_ are different than those for
coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) -- see CLSI approved standard M100.

Oxacillin disk diffusion testing is not reliable for detecting oxacillin/
methicillin resistance. Cefoxitin should be used as a surrogate for disk
diffusion testing.

#### Interpretive Criteria (in μg/ml) for Oxacillin MIC Tests

Level of resistance of 2 pathogens to the Oxacillin MIC tests. Pathogen |
Susceptible | Intermediate | Resistant  
---|---|---|---  
  _S. aureus and S. lugdunensis_ |  ≤ 2 μg/ml |  N/A |  ≥ 4 μg/ml  
 CoNS |  ≤ 0.25 μg/ml |  N/A |  ≥ 0.5 μg/ml  
  


#### Interpretive Criteria (in μg/ml) for Cefoxitin MIC Tests

Level of resistance of 2 pathogens to the  Cefoxitin MIC tests. Pathogen |
Susceptible | Intermediate | Resistant  
---|---|---|---  
  _S. aureus and S. lugdunensis_ |  ≤ 4 μg/ml |  N/A |  ≥ 8 μg/ml  
 CoNS |  N/A |  N/A |  N/A  
  


#### Interpretive Criteria (in mm) for Cefoxitin Disk Diffusion Test

Level of resistance of 2 pathogens to the Cefoxitin disk diffusion test.
Pathogen | Susceptible | Intermediate | Resistant  
---|---|---|---  
  _S. aureus and S. lugdunensis_ |  ≥ 22 mm |  N/A |  ≤ 21 mm  
 CoNS |  ≥ 25 mm |  N/A |  ≤ 24 mm  
  
Top of Page

Why are oxacillin and cefoxitin tested instead of methicillin?

First, methicillin is no longer commercially available in the United States.
Second, oxacillin maintains its activity during storage better than
methicillin and is more likely to detect heteroresistant strains. However,
cefoxitin is an even better inducer of the _mecA_ gene, and tests using
cefoxitin give more reproducible and accurate results than tests with
oxacillin.

Top of Page

If oxacillin and cefoxitin are tested, why are the isolates called "MRSA"
instead of "ORSA"?

When resistance was first described in 1961, methicillin was used to test and
treat infections caused by _S._ _aureus._ However, oxacillin, which is in the
same class of drugs as methicillin, was chosen as the agent of choice for
testing staphylococci in the early 1990s, and this was modified to include
cefoxitin later. The acronym MRSA is still used by many to describe these
isolates because of its historic role.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: February 6, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home MRSA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * General Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For School & Daycare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Coaches & Athletic Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Athletes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Factsheets & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare Settings expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outpatient Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Preventing Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cleaning & Disinfection expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Athletic Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laundry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Photos expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MRSA Bacteria Photo 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What CDC is Doing

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM

