Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000671.htm    
                                Description: Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia is a fungal infection of the lungs. The disease used to be called Pneumocystis carini or PCP pneumonia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000671.htm

# Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

_Pneumocystis jiroveci_ pneumonia is a fungal infection of the lungs. The
disease used to be called _Pneumocystis carini_ or PCP pneumonia.

## Causes

This type of pneumonia is caused by the fungus _Pneumocystis jiroveci_. This
fungus is common in the environment and rarely causes illness in healthy
people.

However, it can cause a lung infection in people with a weakened immune system
due to:

    * Cancer
    * Long-termÂ use of corticosteroids or other medicines that weaken the immune system 
    * HIV/AIDS
    * Organ or bone marrow transplant

 _Pneumocystis jiroveci_ was a rare infection before the AIDS epidemic. Before
the use of preventive antibiotics for the condition, most people in the United
States with advanced AIDS often developed this infection.

## Symptoms

Pneumocystis pneumonia inÂ people with AIDS usually develops slowly over days
to weeks or even months, and is less severe. People with pneumocystis
pneumonia who do not have AIDS usually get sick faster and are more severely
ill.

Symptoms include:

    * Cough, often mild and dry
    * Fever
    * Rapid breathing
    * Shortness of breath, especially with activity (exertion)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood gases
    * Bronchoscopy (with lavage)
    * Lung biopsy
    * X-ray of the chest
    * Sputum exam to check for fungus that causes the infection
    * CBC
    * ÃÂ -1,3 glucan level in the blood 

## Treatment

Anti-infection medicines can be given by mouth (orally) or through a vein
(intravenously), depending on how severe the illness is.

People with low oxygen levels and moderate to severe disease are often
prescribed corticosteroids as well.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pneumocystis pneumonia can be life threatening, causing respiratory failure
that can lead to death. People with this condition need early and effective
treatment. For moderate to severe pneumocystis pneumonia in people with
HIV/AIDS, the short term use of corticosteroids has decreased the incidence of
death.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Pleural effusion (extremely rare)
    * Pneumothorax (collapsed lung)
    * Respiratory failure (may require breathing support)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have a weakened immune system due to AIDS, cancer, transplantation, or
corticosteroid use, call your provider if you develop a cough, fever, or
shortness of breath.

## Prevention

Preventive therapy is recommended for:

    * People with HIV/AIDS who have CD4 counts below 200 cells/microliter or 200 cells/cubic millimeter
    * Bone marrow transplant recipients
    * Organ transplant recipients
    * People who take long-term, high-dose corticosteroids
    * People who have had previous episodes of this infection
    * People who take long-term immunomodulatory drugs

## Alternative Names

Pneumocystis pneumonia; Pneumocystosis; PCP; Pneumocystis carinii

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![AIDS](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17015t.jpg)AIDS
    * ![Pneumocystosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17278t.jpg)Pneumocystosis

## References

Kovacs JA. Pneumocystis pneumonia. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 341.

Walzer PD, Smulian AG, Miller RF. Pneumocystis species. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 271.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![HIV/AIDS and
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDSandInfections_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS
and Infections _Read more_

![Pneumocystis
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PneumocystisInfections_thumb.jpg)Pneumocystis
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

