Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000541.htm    
                                Description: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a fast-growing cancer of a type of white blood cell called a lymphoblast.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000541.htm

# Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a fast-growing cancer of a type of white
blood cell called a lymphoblast.

ALL occurs when the bone marrow produces a large number of immature
lymphoblasts. Bone marrow is the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps
form all blood cells. The abnormal lymphoblasts grow quickly and replace
normal cells in the bone marrow. ALL prevents healthy blood cells from being
made. Life-threatening symptoms can occur as normal blood counts drop.

## Causes

Most of the time, no clear cause can be found for ALL.

The following factors may play a role in the development of all types of
leukemia:

    * Certain chromosome problems
    * Exposure to radiation, including x-rays before birth
    * Past treatment with chemotherapy drugs
    * Receiving a bone marrow transplant
    * Toxins, such as benzene 

The following factors are known to increase the risk for ALL:

    * Down syndrome or other genetic disorders
    * A brother or sister with leukemia 

This type of leukemia usually affects children ages 3 to 7. ALL is the most
common childhood cancer, but it can also occur in adults.

## Symptoms

ALL makes a person more likely to bleed and develop infections. Symptoms
include:

    * Bone and joint pain
    * Easy bruising and bleeding (such as bleeding gums, skin bleeding, nosebleeds, abnormal periods)
    * Feeling weak or tired
    * Fever
    * Loss of appetite and weight loss
    * Paleness
    * Pain or feeling of fullness below the ribs from an enlarged liver or spleen
    * Pinpoint red spots on the skin (petechiae)
    * Swollen lymph nodes in the neck, under arms, and groin
    * Night sweats 

These symptoms can occur with other conditions. Talk to a health care provider
about the meaning of specific symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms.

Blood tests may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC), including white blood cell (WBC) count
    * Platelet count
    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) to check for leukemia cells in the spinal fluid 

Tests are also done to look for changes in the DNA inside the abnormal white
cells. Certain DNA changes may determine how well a person does (prognosis),
and what kind of treatment is recommended.

## Treatment

The first goal of treatment is to get blood counts back to normal. If this
occurs and the bone marrow looks healthy under the microscope, the cancer is
said to be in remission.

Chemotherapy is the first treatment tried with the goal of achieving a
remission.

    * The person may need to stay in the hospital for chemotherapy. Or it can be given at a clinic and the person goes home afterward.
    * Chemotherapy is given into the veins (by IV) and sometimes into the fluid around the brain (the spinal fluid). 

After a remission is achieved, more treatment is given to achieve a cure. This
treatment can include more IV chemotherapy or radiation to the brain. Stem
cell or, bone marrow, transplant from another person may also be done. Further
treatment depends on:

    * Age and health of the person
    * Genetic changes in the leukemia cells
    * How many courses of chemotherapy it took to achieve remission
    * If abnormal cells are still detected under the microscope
    * Availability of donors for stem cell transplant 

You and your provider may need to manage other concerns during your leukemia
treatment, including:

    * Having chemotherapy at home
    * Managing your pets during chemotherapy
    * Bleeding problems
    * Dry mouth
    * Eating enough calories
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Those who respond to treatment right away tend to do better. Most children
with ALL can be cured. Children often have a better outcome than adults.

## Possible Complications

Both leukemia itself and the treatment can lead to many problems such as
bleeding, weight loss, and infections.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child develops symptoms of ALL.

## Prevention

The risk of developing ALL may be reduced by avoiding contact with certain
toxins, radiation, and chemicals.

## Alternative Names

ALL; Acute lymphoblastic leukemia; Acute lymphoid leukemia; Acute childhood
leukemia; Cancer - acute childhood leukemia (ALL); Leukemia - acute childhood
(ALL); Acute lymphocytic leukemia

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Oral mucositis - self-care
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
    * ![Acute lymphocytic leukemia - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1221t.jpg)Acute lymphocytic leukemia - photomicrograph
    * ![Auer rods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1441t.jpg)Auer rods
    * ![Bone marrow from hip](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8636t.jpg)Bone marrow from hip
    * ![Immune system structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8932t.jpg)Immune system structures

## References

Carroll WL, Bhatla T. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In: Lanzkowsky P, Lipton
JM, Fish JD, eds. _Lanzkowsky's Manual of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology_.
6th ed. Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2016:chap 18.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia
treatment (PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/hp/adult-all-treatment-pdq. Updated January 22,
2020. Accessed February 13, 2020.

National Cancer Institute website. Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia
treatment (PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/leukemia/hp/child-all-treatment-pdq. Updated February 6,
2020. Accessed February 13, 2020.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Version 4.2017.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/all.pdf. Updated January 15,
2020. Accessed February 13, 2020.

## Review Date 2/6/2020

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![Childhood
Leukemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildhoodLeukemia_thumb.jpg)Childhood
Leukemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

