Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000594.htm    
                                Description: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that causes AIDS. When a person becomes infected with HIV, the virus attacks and weakens the immune system. As the immune system weakens, the person is at    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HIV/AIDS

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000594.htm

# HIV/AIDS

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the virus that causes AIDS. When a
person becomes infected with HIV, the virus attacks and weakens the immune
system. As the immune system weakens, the person is at risk of getting life-
threatening infections and cancers. When that happens, the illness is called
AIDS. Once a person has the virus, it stays inside the body for life.

## Causes

The virus is spread (transmitted) person-to-person through certain body
fluids:

    * Blood
    * Semen and preseminal fluid
    * Rectal fluids
    * Vaginal fluids
    * Breast milk

HIV can be spread if these fluids come in contact with:

    * Mucous membranes (inside of the mouth, penis, vagina, rectum)
    * Damaged tissue (tissue that has been cut or scraped)
    * Injection into the blood stream

HIV cannot be spread through sweat, saliva, or urine.

In the United States, HIV is mainly spread:

    * Through vaginal or anal sex with someone who has HIV without using a condom or is not taking medicines to prevent or treat HIV
    * Through needle sharing or other equipment used to inject drugs with someone who has HIV

Less often, HIV is spread:

    * From mother to child. A pregnant woman can spread the virus to her fetus through their shared blood circulation, or a nursing mother can pass it to her baby through her breast milk. Testing and treatment of HIV-positive mothers has helped lower the number of babies getting HIV.
    * Through needle sticks or other sharp objects that are contaminated with HIV (mainly health care workers).

The virus is NOT spread by:

    * Casual contact, such as hugging or closed-mouth kissing
    * Mosquitoes or pets
    * Participating in sports
    * Touching items that were touched by a person infected with the virus
    * Eating food handled by a person with HIV

HIV and blood or organ donation:

    * HIV is not spread to a person who donates blood or organs. People who donate organs are never in direct contact with the people who receive them. Likewise, a person who donates blood is never in contact with the person receiving it. In all of these procedures, sterile needles and instruments are used.
    * While very rare, in the past HIV has been spread to a person receiving blood or organs from an infected donor. However, this risk is very small because blood banks and organ donor programs thoroughly check (screen) donors, blood, and tissues.

Risk factors for getting HIV include:

    * Having unprotected anal or vaginal sex. Receptive anal sex is the riskiest. Having multiple partners also increases the risk. Using a new condom correctly every time you have sex greatly helps lower this risk.
    * Using drugs and sharing needles or syringes.
    * Having a sexual partner with HIV who is not taking HIV medicines.
    * Having a sexually transmitted disease (STD).

## Symptoms

Symptoms related to acute HIV infection (when a person is first infected) can
be similar to the flu or other viral illnesses. They include:

    * Fever and muscle pains
    * Headache
    * Sore throat
    * Night sweats
    * Mouth sores, including yeast infection (thrush)
    * Swollen lymph glands
    * Diarrhea

Many people have no symptoms when they are first infected with HIV.

Acute HIV infection progresses over a few weeks to months to become an
asymptomatic HIV infection (no symptoms). This stage can last 10 years or
longer. During this period, the person might have no reason to suspect they
have HIV, but they can spread the virus to others.

If they are not treated, almost all people infected with HIV will develop
AIDS. Some people develop AIDS within a few years of infection. Others remain
completely healthy after 10 or even 20 years.

People with AIDS have had their immune system damaged by HIV. They are at very
high risk of getting infections that are uncommon in people with a healthy
immune system. These infections are called opportunistic infections. These can
be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, or protozoa, and can affect any part of
the body. People with AIDS are also at higher risk for certain cancers,
especially lymphomas and a skin cancer called Kaposi sarcoma.

Symptoms depend on the particular infection and which part of the body is
infected. Lung infections are common in AIDS and usually cause cough, fever,
and shortness of breath. Intestinal infections are also common and can cause
diarrhea, abdominal pain, vomiting, or swallowing problems. Weight loss,
fever, sweats, rashes, and swollen lymph glands are common in people with HIV
infection and AIDS.

## Exams and Tests

DIAGNOSTIC TESTS

These are tests that are done to check if you've been infected with the virus.
In general, testing is a 2-step process:

    * Screening test -- There are several kinds of tests. Some are blood tests, others are mouth fluid tests. They check for antibodies to the HIV virus, HIV antigen, or both. Some screening tests can give results in 30 minutes or less.
    * Follow-up test -- This is also called a confirmatory test. It is often done when the screening test is positive. 

Home tests are available to test for HIV. If you plan to use one, check to
make sure it is approved by the FDA. Follow instructions on the packaging to
ensure the results are as accurate as possible.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that everyone
ages 15 to 65 have a screening test for HIV. People with risky behaviors
should be tested regularly. Pregnant women should also have a screening test.

TESTS AFTER BEING DIAGNOSED WITH HIV

People with AIDS usually have regular blood tests to check their CD4 cell
count:

    * CD4 cells are the blood cells that HIV attacks. They are also called T4 cells or "helper T cells."
    * As HIV damages the immune system, the CD4 count drops. A normal CD4 count is from 500 to 1,500 cells/mm3 of blood.
    * People usually develop symptoms when their CD4 count drops below 350. More serious complications occur when the CD4 count drops to 200. When the count is below 200, the person is said to have AIDS. 

Other tests include:

    * HIV RNA level, or viral load, to check how much HIV is in the blood
    * A resistance test to see if the virus has any resistance to the medicines used to treat HIV
    * Complete blood count, blood chemistry, and urine test
    * Tests for other sexually-transmitted infections
    * TB test
    * Pap smear to check for cervical cancer
    * Anal Pap smear to check for cancer of the anus 

## Treatment

HIV/AIDS is treated with medicines that stop the virus from multiplying. This
treatment is called antiretroviral therapy (ART).

In the past, people with HIV infection would start antiretroviral treatment
after their CD4 count dropped or they developed HIV complications. Today, HIV
treatment is recommended for all people with HIV infection, even if their CD4
count is still normal.

Regular blood tests are needed to make sure the virus level in the blood
(viral load) is kept low, or suppressed. The goal of treatment is to lower the
HIV virus in the blood to a level that is so low that the test can't detect
it. This is called an undetectable viral load.

If the CD4 count already dropped before treatment was started, it will usually
slowly go up. HIV complications often disappear as the immune system recovers.

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where members share common experiences and problems
can often help lower the emotional stress of having a long-term illness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, most people with HIV/AIDS can live a healthy and normal life.

Current treatments do not cure the infection. The medicines only work as long
as they are taken every day. If the medicines are stopped, the viral load will
go up and the CD4 count will drop. If the medicines are not taken regularly,
the virus can become resistant to one or more of the drugs, and the treatment
will stop working.

People who are on treatment need to see their health care providers regularly.
This is to make sure the medicines are working and to check for side effects
of the drugs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have any risk factors for
HIV infection. Also call if you develop symptoms of AIDS. By law, the results
of HIV testing must be kept confidential (private). Your provider will review
your test results with you.

## Prevention

Preventing HIV/AIDS:

    * Get tested. People who don't know they have HIV infection and who look and feel healthy are the most likely to transmit it to others.
    * DO NOT use illegal drugs and do not share needles or syringes. Many communities have needle exchange programs where you can get rid of used syringes and get new, sterile ones. Staff at these programs can also refer you for addiction treatment.
    * Avoid contact with another person's blood. If possible, wear protective clothing, a mask, and goggles when caring for people who are injured.
    * If you test positive for HIV, you can pass the virus to others. You should not donate blood, plasma, body organs, or sperm.
    * HIV-positive women who might become pregnant should talk to their provider about the risk to their unborn child. They should also discuss methods to prevent their baby from becoming infected, such as taking antiretroviral medicines during pregnancy.
    * Breastfeeding should be avoided to prevent passing HIV to infants through breast milk. 

Safer sex practices, such as using latex condoms, are effective in preventing
the spread of HIV. But there is still a risk of getting the infection, even
with the use of condoms (for example, condoms can tear).

In people who aren't infected with the virus, but are at high risk of getting
it, taking a drug called Truvada can help prevent the infection. This
treatment is known as pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP. Talk to your provider
if you think PrEP might be right for you.

HIV-positive people who are taking antiretroviral medicines and have no virus
in their blood do not transmit the virus.

The US blood supply is among the safest in the world. Nearly all people
infected with HIV through blood transfusions received those transfusions
before 1985, the year HIV testing began for all donated blood.

If you believe you have been exposed to HIV, seek medical attention right
away. DO NOT delay. Starting antiviral medicines right after the exposure (up
to 3 days after) can reduce the chance that you will be infected. This is
called post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). It has been used to prevent
transmission in health care workers injured by needlesticks.

## Alternative Names

HIV infection; Infection - HIV; Human immunodeficiency virus; Acquired immune
deficiency syndrome

## Patient Instructions

    * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems
    * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
    * Jejunostomy feeding tube 
    * Oral mucositis - self-care

## Images

    * ![STDs and ecological niches](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17210t.jpg)STDs and ecological niches
    * ![HIV](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17225t.jpg)HIV
    * ![Primary HIV infection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17268t.jpg)Primary HIV infection
    * ![Canker sore \(aphthous ulcer\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2333t.jpg)Canker sore (aphthous ulcer)
    * ![Mycobacterium marinum infection on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2337t.jpg)Mycobacterium marinum infection on the hand
    * ![Dermatitis - seborrheic on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2399t.jpg)Dermatitis - seborrheic on the face
    * ![AIDS](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17015t.jpg)AIDS
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2517t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma - close-up
    * ![Histoplasmosis, disseminated in HIV patient](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2430t.jpg)Histoplasmosis, disseminated in HIV patient
    * ![Molluscum on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2441t.jpg)Molluscum on the chest
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2516t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma on the back
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma on the thigh](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2518t.jpg)Kaposi's sarcoma on the thigh
    * ![Molluscum contagiosum on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2885t.jpg)Molluscum contagiosum on the face
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
    * ![Tuberculosis in the lung](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1034t.jpg)Tuberculosis in the lung
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma - lesion on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1363t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma - lesion on the foot
    * ![Kaposi sarcoma - perianal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2600t.jpg)Kaposi sarcoma - perianal
    * ![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) disseminated](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2910t.jpg)Herpes zoster (shingles) disseminated
    * ![Dermatitis seborrheic - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2398t.jpg)Dermatitis seborrheic - close-up

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. About HIV/AIDS.
www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/whatishiv.html. Updated March 1, 2019. Accessed April
15, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. PrEP.
www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/prep.html. Updated February 19, 2019. Accessed April
15, 2019.

DiNenno EA, Prejean J, Irwin K, et al. Recommendations for HIV screening of
gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men - United States, 2017.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2017;66(31):830-832.
www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/66/wr/mm6631a3.htm.

Gulick RM. Antiretroviral therapy of human immunodeficiency virus and acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 364.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for HIV: US Preventive
Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med._
2013;159(1):51-60. PMID: 23698354 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698354.

Reitz MS, Gallo RC. Human immunodeficiency viruses. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 169.

Simonetti FR, Dewar R, Maldarelli F. Diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus
infection. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 120.

US Department of Health and Human Services website. Guidelines for the use of
antiretroviral agents in adults and adolescents living with HIV.
aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/brief-html/1/adult-and-adolescent-arv/0. Updated
July 10, 2019. Accessed September 27, 2019.

Verma A, Berger JR. Neurological manifestations of human immunodeficiency
virus infection in adults. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy
SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 77.

## Review Date 6/5/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Internal
review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update 09/27/2019.

![HIV/AIDS](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDS_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

