Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003538.htm    
                                Description: In general, testing for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a 2-step process that involves a screening test and follow-up tests.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Screening and diagnosis for HIV

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003538.htm

# Screening and diagnosis for HIV

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

In general, testing for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a 2-step
process that involves a screening test and follow-up tests.

## How the Test is Performed

HIV testing can be done by:

    * Drawing blood from a vein
    * A finger prick blood sample
    * An oral fluid swab
    * A urine sample

SCREENING TESTS

These are tests that check if you've been infected with HIV. The most common
tests are described below.

An antibody test (also called immunoassay) checks for antibodies to the HIV
virus. Your health care provider may order the test for you to have done at a
lab. Or, you may have it done at a testing center or use a home kit. These
tests can detect antibodies starting a few weeks after you're infected with
the virus. Antibody tests can be done using:

    * Blood -- This test is done by drawing blood from a vein, or by a finger prick. A blood test is the most accurate because blood has a higher level of antibodies than other body fluids.
    * Oral fluid -- This test checks for antibodies in the cells of the mouth. It is done by swabbing the gums and inside cheeks. This test is less accurate than the blood test.
    * Urine -- This test checks for antibodies in the urine. This test is also less accurate than the blood test.

An antigen test checks your blood for an HIV antigen, called p24. When you're
first infected with HIV, and before your body has a chance to make antibodies
to the virus, your blood has a high level of p24. The p24 antigen test is
accurate 11 days to 1 month after getting infected. This test is usually not
used by itself to screen for HIV infection.

An antibody-antigen blood test checks for levels of both HIV antibodies and
the p24 antigen. This test can detect the virus as early as 3 weeks after
getting infected.

FOLLOW-UP TESTS

A follow-up test is also called a confirmatory test. It is usually done when
the screening test is positive. Several kinds of tests may be used to:

    * Detect the virus itself
    * Detect antibodies more accurately than screening tests
    * Tell the difference between the 2 types of virus, HIV-1 and HIV-2

## How to Prepare for the Test

No preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When taking a blood sample, some people feel moderate pain. Others feel only a
prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing or a slight bruise.
This soon goes away.

There is no discomfort with an oral swab test or the urine test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Testing for HIV infection is done for many reasons, including for:

    * Sexually active individuals
    * People who want to be tested
    * People in high-risk groups (men who have sex with men, injection drug users and their sexual partners, and commercial sex workers)
    * People with certain conditions and infections (such as Kaposi sarcoma or Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia)
    * Pregnant women, to help prevent them from passing the virus to the baby

## Normal Results

A negative test result is normal. People with early HIV infection may have a
negative test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive result on a screening test does not confirm that the person has HIV
infection. More tests are needed to confirm HIV infection.

A negative test resultÂ does not rule out HIV infection. There is a period of
time, called the window period, between HIV infection and the appearance of
anti-HIV antibodies. During this period, antibodies and antigen may not be
measured.

If a person might have acute or primary HIV infection and is in the window
period, a negative screening test doesn't rule out HIV infection. Follow-up
tests for HIV are needed.

## Risks

With the blood test, veins and arteries vary in size from one patient to
another, and from one side of the body to the other. Taking blood from some
people may be more difficult than from others. Other risks associated with
having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

There are no risks with the oral swab and urine tests.

## Alternative Names

HIV testing; HIV screening; HIV screening test; HIV confirmatory test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Bartlett JG, Redfield RR, Pham PA. Laboratory tests. In: Bartlett JG, Redfield
RR, Pham PA, eds. _Bartlett's Medical Management of HIV Infection_. 17th ed.
Oxford, England: Oxford University Press; 2019:chap 2.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. HIV testing.
www.cdc.gov/hiv/guidelines/testing.html. Updated March 16, 2018. Accessed May
23, 2019.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for HIV: US Preventive
Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159(1):51-60. PMID: 23698354 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698354.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![HIV/AIDS](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDS_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

