Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000357.htm    
                                Description: Acute adrenal crisis is a life-threatening condition that occurs when there is not enough cortisol. This is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute adrenal crisis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000357.htm

# Acute adrenal crisis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute adrenal crisis is a life-threatening condition that occurs when there is
not enough cortisol. This is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands.

## Causes

The adrenal glands are located just above the kidneys. The adrenal gland
consists of two parts. The outer portion, called the cortex, produces
cortisol. This is an important hormone for controlling blood pressure. The
inner portion, called the medulla, produces the hormone adrenaline (also
called epinephrine). Both cortisol and adrenaline are released in response to
stress.

Cortisol production is regulated by the pituitary. This is a small gland just
underneath under the brain. The pituitary releases adrenocorticotropic hormone
(ACTH). This is a hormone that causes the adrenal glands to release cortisol.

Adrenaline production is regulated by nerves coming from the brain and spinal
cord and by circulating hormones.

Adrenal crisis can occur from any of the following:

    * The adrenal gland is damaged due to, for example, Addison disease or other adrenal gland disease, or surgery
    * The pituitary is injured and cannot release ACTHÂ (hypopituitarism)
    * Adrenal insufficiency is not properly treated
    * You've been taking glucocorticoid medicines for a long time, and suddenly stop
    * You've become very dehydrated 
    * Infection or other physical stress

## Symptoms

Symptoms and signs of adrenal crisis can include any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain or flank pain
    * Confusion, loss of consciousness, or coma
    * Dehydration
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Fatigue, severe weakness
    * Headache
    * High fever 
    * Loss of appetite 
    * Low blood pressure
    * Low blood sugar
    * Nausea, vomiting 
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Rapid respiratory rate
    * Slow, sluggish movement
    * Unusual and excessive sweating on face or palms

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be ordered to help diagnose acute adrenal crisis include:

    * ACTH (cosyntropin) stimulation test
    * Cortisol level
    * Blood sugar
    * Potassium level
    * Sodium level
    * pH level 

## Treatment

In adrenal crisis,Â you need to be given the drugÂ hydrocortisone right away
through a vein (intravenous) or muscle (intramuscular). You may receive
intravenous fluids if you have low blood pressure.

You will need to go to the hospital for treatment and monitoring. If infection
or another medical problem caused the crisis, you may need additional
treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Shock may occur if treatment is not provided early, and it can be life
threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you develop symptoms of acute adrenal crisis.

Call your health care provider if you have Addison disease or hypopituitarism
and are unable to take your glucocorticoid medicine for any reason.

If you have Addison disease, you will usually be told to temporarily increase
the dosage of your glucocorticoid medicine if you are stressed or ill, or
before having surgery.

## Prevention

If you have Addison disease, learn to recognize the signs of potential stress
that may cause an acute adrenal crisis. If you have been instructed by your
doctor, be prepared to give yourself an emergency shot of glucocorticoid or to
increase your dosage of oral glucocorticoid medicine in times of stress.
Parents should learn to do this for their children who have adrenal
insufficiency.

Always carry medical ID (card, bracelet, or necklace) that says you have
adrenal insufficiency. The ID should also say the type of medicine and dosage
you need in case of an emergency.

If you take glucocorticoid medicines for pituitary ACTH deficiency, be sure
you know when to take a stress dose of your medicine. Discuss this with your
provider.

Never miss taking your medicines.

## Alternative Names

Adrenal crisis; Addisonian crisis; Acute adrenal insufficiency

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Adrenal gland hormone secretion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8719t.jpg)Adrenal gland hormone secretion

## References

Bornstein SR, Alloliu B, Arlt W, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of primary
adrenal Insufficiency: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J
Clin Endocrinol Metab_. 2016;101(2):364-389. PMID: PMC4880116
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4880116.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

Thiessen MEW. Thyroid and adrenal disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 120.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

