Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003693.htm    
                                Description: The cortisol blood test measures the level of cortisol in the blood. Cortisol is a steroid (glucocorticoid or corticosteroid) hormone produced by the adrenal gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cortisol blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003693.htm

# Cortisol blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The cortisol blood test measures the level of cortisol in the blood. Cortisol
is a steroid (glucocorticoid or corticosteroid) hormone produced by the
adrenal gland.

Cortisol can also be measured using a urine or saliva test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your doctor will likely have you do the test early in the morning. This is
important, because cortisol level varies throughout the day.

You may be asked not to do any vigorous exercising the day before the test.

You may also be told to temporarily stop taking medicines that can affect the
test, including:

    * Anti-seizure drugs
    * Estrogen
    * Human-made (synthetic) glucocorticoids, such as hydrocortisone, prednisone and prednisolone
    * Androgens

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to check for increased or decreased cortisol production.
Cortisol is a glucocorticoid (steroid) hormone released from the adrenal gland
in response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH is a hormone released
from the pituitary gland in the brain.

Cortisol affects many different body systems. It plays a role in:

    * Bone growth
    * Blood pressure control
    * Immune system function
    * Metabolism of fats, carbohydrates, and protein
    * Nervous system function
    * Stress response 

Different diseases, such as Cushing syndrome and Addison disease, can lead to
either too much or too little production of cortisol. Measuring blood cortisol
level can help diagnose these conditions. It is also measured to evaluate how
well the pituitary and adrenal glands are working.

The test is often done before and 1 hour after injection of a medicine called
ACTH (cosyntropin). This part of the test is called an ACTH stimulation test.
It is an important test that helps check the function of the pituitary and
adrenal glands.

Other conditions for which the test may be ordered include:

    * Acute adrenal crisis, a life-threatening condition that occurs when there is not enough cortisol
    * Sepsis, an illness in which the body has a severe response to bacteria or other germs
    * Low blood pressure

## Normal Results

Normal values for a blood sample taken at 8 in the morning are 5 to 25 mcg/dL
or 140 to 690 nmol/L.

Normal values depend on the time of day and the clinical context. Normal
ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use different
measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your doctor about the
meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level may indicate:

    * Cushing disease, in which the pituitary gland makes too much ACTH because of excess growth of the pituitary gland or a tumor in the pituitary gland
    * Ectopic Cushing syndrome, in which a tumor outside the pituitary or adrenal glands makes too much ACTH
    * Tumor of the adrenal gland that is producing too much cortisol
    * Stress
    * Acute illness 

A lower than normal level may indicate:

    * Addison disease, in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough cortisol
    * Hypopituitarism, in which the pituitary gland does not signal the adrenal gland to produce enough cortisol
    * Suppression of normal pituitary or adrenal function by glucocorticoid medicines including pills, skin creams, eyedrops, inhalers, joint injections, chemotherapy 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Serum cortisol

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cortisol - plasma or serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:388-389.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

