Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003695.htm    
                                Description: The ACTH test measures the level of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in the blood. ACTH is a hormone released from the pituitary gland in the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ACTH blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003695.htm

# ACTH blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ACTH test measures the level of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in the
blood. ACTH is a hormone released from the pituitary gland in the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your doctor will likely ask you to have the test done early in the morning.
This is important, because cortisol level varies throughout the day.

You may also be told to stop taking medicines that can affect the test
results. These medicines include glucocorticoids such as prednisone,
hydrocortisone, or dexamethasone. (Do not stop these medicines unless
instructed by your provider.)

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The main function of ACTH is to regulate the glucocorticoid (steroid) hormone
cortisol. Cortisol is released by the adrenal gland. It regulates blood
pressure, blood sugar, the immune system and the response to stress.

This test can help find the causes of certain hormone problems.

## Normal Results

Normal values for a blood sample taken early in the morning are 9 to 52 pg/mL
(2 to 11 pmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal level of ACTH may indicate:

    * Adrenal glands not producing enough cortisol (Addison disease)
    * Adrenal glands not producing enough hormones (congenital adrenal hyperplasia)
    * One or more of the endocrine glands are overactive or have formed a tumor (multiple endocrine neoplasia type I)
    * Pituitary is making too much ACTH (Cushing disease), which is usually caused by a non-cancerous tumor of the pituitary gland
    * Rare type of tumor (lung, thyroid, or pancreas) making too much ACTH (ectopic Cushing syndrome) 

A lower-than-normal level of ACTH may indicate:

    * Glucocorticoid medicines are suppressing ACTH production (most common)
    * Pituitary gland not producing enough hormones, such as ACTH (hypopituitarism)
    * Tumor of the adrenal gland that produces too much cortisol

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Serum adrenocorticotropic hormone; Adrenocorticotropic hormone; Highly-
sensitive ACTH

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH, corticotropin) -
serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:107.

Melmed S, Kleinberg D. Pituitary masses and tumors. Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

