Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003621.htm    
                                Description: The 24-hour urinary aldosterone excretion test measures the amount of aldosterone removed in the urine in a day.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

24-hour urinary aldosterone excretion test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003621.htm

# 24-hour urinary aldosterone excretion test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The 24-hour urinary aldosterone excretion test measures the amount of
aldosterone removed in the urine in a day.

Aldosterone can also be measured with a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is needed. You will need to collect your urine over 24
hours. Your health care provider will tell you how to do this. Follow
instructions exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may ask you to stop taking certain medicines a few days before
the test so that they don't affect the test results. Be sure to tell your
provider about all the medicines you take. These include:

    * High blood pressure medicines
    * Heart medicines
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Antacid and ulcer medicines
    * Water pills (diuretics) 

Do not stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

Be aware that other factors can affect aldosterone measurements, including:

    * Pregnancy
    * High- or low-sodium diet
    * Eating large amounts of black licorice
    * Strenuous exercise
    * Stress 

Do not drink coffee, tea, or cola during the day the urine is collected. Your
provider will likely recommend that you eat no more than 3 grams of salt
(sodium) per day for at least 2 weeks before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to see how much aldosterone is released into your urine.
Aldosterone is a hormone released by the adrenal gland that helps the kidney
control salt, water, and potassium balance.

## Normal Results

Results depend on:

    * How much sodium is in your diet
    * Whether your kidneys work properly
    * The condition being diagnosed

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level of aldosterone may be due to:

    * Abuse of diuretics
    * Liver cirrhosis
    * Adrenal gland problems, including adrenal tumors that produce aldosterone
    * Heart failure
    * Laxative abuse 

Lower than normal levels may indicate Addison disease, a disorder in which the
adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Aldosterone - urine; Addison disease - urine aldosterone; Cirrhosis - serum
aldosterone

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Weiner ID, Wingo CS. Endocrine causes of hypertension: aldosterone. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 38.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

