Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003696.htm    
                                Description: The ACTH stimulation test measures how well the adrenal glands respond to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH is a hormone produced in the pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal glands to release    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ACTH stimulation test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003696.htm

# ACTH stimulation test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ACTH stimulation test measures how well the adrenal glands respond to
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH is a hormone produced in the
pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal glands to release a hormone called
cortisol.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done the following way:

    * Your blood is drawn.
    * You then receive a shot (injection) of ACTH, usually into the muscle in your shoulder. The ACTH may be a man-made (synthetic) form.
    * After either 30 minutes or 60 minutes, or both, depending on how much ACTH you receive, your blood is drawn again.
    * The lab checks the cortisol level in all the blood samples.

You may also have other blood tests, including ACTH, as part of the first
blood test. Along with the blood tests, you may also have a urine cortisol
test orÂ urine 17-ketosteroids test, which involves collecting the urine over
a 24-hour period.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may need to limit activities and eat foods that are high in carbohydrates
12 to 24 hours before the test. You may be asked to fast for 6 hours before
the test. Sometimes, no special preparation is needed. You may be asked to
temporarily stop taking medicines, such as hydrocortisone, which can interfere
with the cortisol blood test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

The injection into the shoulder may cause moderate pain or stinging.

Some people feel flushed, nervous, or nauseated after the injection of ACTH.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test can help determine whether your adrenal and pituitary glands are
normal. It is most often used when your health care provider thinks you have
an adrenal gland problem, such as Addison disease or pituitary insufficiency.
It is also used to see if your pituitary and adrenal glands have recovered
from prolonged use of glucocorticoid medicines, such as prednisone.

## Normal Results

An increase in cortisol after stimulation by ACTH is expected. Cortisol level
after ACTH stimulation should be higher than 18 to 20 mcg/dL or 497 to 552
nmol/L, depending on the dose of ACTH used.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to yourÂ
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

This test is helpful in finding out if you have:

    * Acute adrenal crisis (life-threatening condition that occurs when there is not enough cortisol)
    * Addison disease (adrenal glands do not produce enough cortisol)
    * Hypopituitarism (pituitary gland is not producing enough hormones such as ACTH) 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Test of adrenal reserve; Cosyntropin stimulation test; Cortrosyn stimulation
test; Synacthen stimulation test; Tetracosactide stimulation test

## References

Barthel A, Willenberg HS, Gruber M, Bornstein SR. Adrenal insufficiency. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 102.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. ACTH stimulation test - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:98.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

