Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003459.htm    
                                Description: The 17-hydroxycorticosteroids (17-OHCS) test measures the level of 17-OHCS in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

17-hydroxycorticosteroids urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003459.htm

# 17-hydroxycorticosteroids urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The 17-hydroxycorticosteroids (17-OHCS) test measures the level of 17-OHCS in
the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is needed. You will need to collect your urine over 24
hours. Your health care provider will tell you how to do this. Follow
instructions exactly.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The provider will instruct you, if necessary, to stop medicines that may
interfere with the test. These may include:

    * Birth control pills that contain estrogen
    * Certain antibiotics
    * Glucocorticoids

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

17-OHCS is a product formed when the liver and other body tissues break down
the steroid hormone cortisol.

This test can help determine if the body is producing too much cortisol. The
test may be used to diagnose Cushing syndrome. This is a disorder that occurs
when the body has a constant high level of cortisol.

The urine volume and urine creatinine are often done with 17-OHCS test at the
same time. This helps the provider interpret the test.

This test is not done often now. The free cortisol urine test is a better
screening test for Cushing disease.

## Normal Results

Normal values:

    * Male: 3 to 9 mg/24 hours (8.3 to 25 Âµmol/24 hours)
    * Female: 2 to 8 mg/24 hours (5.5 to 22 Âµmol/24 hours)

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level of 17-OHCS may indicate:

    * A type of Cushing syndrome caused by a tumor in the adrenal gland that produces cortisol
    * Depression
    * Hydrocortisone therapy
    * Malnutrition
    * Obesity
    * Pregnancy
    * A hormonal cause of severe high blood pressure
    * Severe physical or emotional stress
    * Tumor in the pituitary gland or elsewhere in the body that releases a hormone called adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) 

A lower than normal level of 17-OHCS may indicate:

    * Adrenal glands are not producing enough of their hormones
    * Pituitary gland is not producing enough of its hormones
    * Hereditary enzyme deficiency
    * Previous surgery to remove the adrenal gland 

Urinating more than 3 liters a day (polyuria) can make the result of the test
high even though cortisol production is normal.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

17-OH corticosteroids; 17-OHCS

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. 17-hydroxycorticosteroids (17-OHCS) - 24-hour urine.
In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:659-660.

Juszczak A, Morris DG, Grossman AB, Nieman LK. Cushing's syndrome. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

