Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003703.htm    
                                Description: The cortisol urine test measures the level of cortisol in the urine. Cortisol is aÂ glucocorticoidÂ (steroid) hormone produced by the adrenal gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cortisol urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003703.htm

# Cortisol urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The cortisol urine test measures the level of cortisol in the urine. Cortisol
is aÂ glucocorticoidÂ (steroid) hormone produced by the adrenal gland.

Cortisol can also be measured using a blood or saliva test.

## How the Test is Performed

A 24-hour urine sample is needed. You will need to collect your urine over 24
hours in a container provided by the laboratory. Your health care provider
will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly.

Because cortisol production by the adrenal gland can vary, the test may need
to be done three or more separate times to get a more accurate picture of
average cortisol production.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to do any vigorous exercising the day before the test.

You may also be told to temporarily stop taking medicines that can affect the
test, including:

    * Anti-seizure drugs
    * Estrogen
    * Human-made (synthetic) glucocorticoids, such as hydrocortisone, prednisone and prednisolone
    * Androgens 

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to check for increased or decreased cortisol production.
Cortisol is a glucocorticoid (steroid) hormone released from the adrenal gland
in response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). This is a hormone released
from the pituitary gland in the brain. Cortisol affects many different body
systems. It plays a role in:

    * Bone growth
    * Blood pressure control
    * Immune system function
    * Metabolism of fats, carbohydrates, and protein
    * Nervous system function
    * Stress response

Different diseases, such as Cushing syndrome and Addison disease, can lead to
either too much or too little production of cortisol. Measuring urine cortisol
level can help diagnose these conditions.

## Normal Results

Normal range is 4 to 40 mcg/24 hours or 11 to 110 nmol/day.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level may indicate:

    * Cushing disease, in which the pituitary gland makes too much ACTH because of excess growth of the pituitary gland or a tumor in the pituitary gland
    * Ectopic Cushing syndrome, in which a tumor outside the pituitary or adrenal glands makes too much ACTH
    * Severe depression
    * Tumor of the adrenal gland that is producing too much cortisol 
    * Severe stress
    * Rare genetic disorders

A lower than normal level may indicate:

    * Addison disease in which the adrenal glands do not produce enough cortisol
    * Hypopituitarism in which the pituitary gland does not signal the adrenal gland to produce enough cortisol
    * Suppression of normal pituitary or adrenal function by glucocorticoid medicines including pills, skin creams, eyedrops, inhalers, joint injections, chemotherapy 

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

24-hour urinary free cortisol (UFC)

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cortisol - urine. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:389-390.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

