Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000378.htm    
                                Description: Addison disease is a disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Addison disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000378.htm

# Addison disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Addison disease is a disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands do not
produce enough hormones.

## Causes

The adrenal glands are small hormone-releasing organs located on top of each
kidney. They are made up of an outer portion, called the cortex, and an inner
portion, called the medulla.

The cortex produces 3 hormones:

    * Glucocorticoid hormones (such as cortisol) maintain sugar (glucose) control, decrease (suppress) immune response, and help the body respond to stress.
    * Mineralocorticoid hormones (such as aldosterone) regulate sodium, water and potassium balance.
    * Sex hormones, androgens (male) and estrogens (female), affect sexual development and sex drive. 

Addison disease results from damage to the adrenal cortex. The damage causes
the cortex to produce hormone levels that are too low.

This damage may be caused by the following:

    * The immune system mistakenly attacking the adrenal glands (autoimmune disease)
    * Infections such as tuberculosis, HIV, or fungal infections
    * Hemorrhage into the adrenal glands
    * Tumors 

Risk factors for the autoimmune type of Addison disease include other
autoimmune diseases:

    * Swelling (inflammation) of the thyroid gland that often results in reduced thyroid function (chronic thyroiditis) 
    * Thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone (overactive thyroid, Graves disease) 
    * Itchy rash with bumps and blisters (dermatitis herpetiformis) 
    * Parathyroid glands in the neck do not produce enough parathyroid hormone (hypoparathyroidism) 
    * Pituitary gland does not produce normal amounts of some or all of its hormones (hypopituitarism) 
    * Autoimmune disorder that affects the nerves and the muscles they control (myasthenia gravis) 
    * Body does not have enough healthy red blood cells (pernicious anemia) 
    * Testicles cannot produce sperm or male hormones (testicular failure)
    * Type I diabetes
    * Loss of brown color (pigment) from areas of the skin (vitiligo) 

Certain rare genetic defects may also cause adrenal insufficiency.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Addison disease may include any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Chronic diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting  

    * Darkening of the skin
    * Dehydration
    * Dizziness when standing up
    * Low-grade fever
    * Low blood sugar
    * Low blood pressure
    * Extreme weakness, fatigue, and slow, sluggish movement
    * Darker skin on the inside of the cheeks and lips (buccal mucosa)
    * Salt craving (eating food with a lot of added salt)
    * Weight loss with reduced appetite 

Symptoms may not be present all the time. Many people have some or all of
these symptoms when they have an infection or other stress on the body. Other
times, they have no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

Blood tests will likely be ordered and may show:

    * Increased potassium
    * Low blood pressure, especially with a change in body position
    * Low cortisol level
    * Low sodium level
    * Low pH
    * Normal testosterone and estrogen levels, but low DHEA level
    * High eosinophil count

Additional laboratory tests may be ordered.

Other tests may include:

    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Cosyntropin (ACTH) stimulation test 

## Treatment

Treatment with replacement corticosteroids and mineralocorticoids will control
the symptoms of this disease. These medicines usually need to be taken for
life.

Never skip doses of your medicine for this condition because life-threatening
reactions may occur.

Your provider may tell you to increase your dosage for a short time because
of:

    * Infection
    * Injury
    * Stress
    * Surgery 

During an extreme form of adrenal insufficiency, called adrenal crisis, you
must inject hydrocortisone right away. Treatment for low blood pressure is
usually needed as well.

Some people with Addison disease are taught to give themselves an emergency
injection of hydrocortisone during stressful situations. Always carry medical
ID (card, bracelet, or necklace) that says you have adrenal insufficiency. The
ID should also say the type of medicine and dosage you need in case of an
emergency.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With hormone therapy, many people with Addison disease are able to lead a
nearly normal life.

## Possible Complications

Complications can occur if you take too little or too much adrenal hormone.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You are unable to keep your medicine down due to vomiting.
    * You have stress such as infection, injury, trauma, or dehydration. You may need to have your medicine adjusted.
    * Your weight increases over time.
    * Your ankles begin to swell.
    * You develop new symptoms.
    * On treatment, you develop signs of a disorder calledÂ Cushing syndrome

If you have symptoms of adrenal crisis, give yourself an emergency injection
of your prescribed medicine. If it is not available, go to the nearest
emergency room or call 911.

Symptoms of adrenal crisis include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Low blood pressure
    * Reduced level of consciousness 

## Alternative Names

Adrenocortical hypofunction; Chronic adrenocortical insufficiency; Primary
adrenal insufficiency

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Barthel A, Benker G, Berens K, et al. An update on Addison's disease. _Exp
Clin Endocrinol Diabetes_. 2019;127(2-03):165-175. PMID: 30562824Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30562824.

Bornstein SR, Allolio B, Arlt W, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of primary
adrenal Insufficiency: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J
Clin Endocrinol Metab_. 2016;101(2):364-389. PMID: PMC4880116
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4880116.

Nieman LK. Adrenal cortex. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 227.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Addison Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

