Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000583.htm    
                                Description: Multiple myeloma is a blood cancer that starts in the plasma cells in the bone marrow. Bone marrow is the soft, spongy tissue found inside most bones. It helps make blood cells.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple myeloma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000583.htm

# Multiple myeloma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multiple myeloma is a blood cancer that starts in the plasma cells in the bone
marrow. Bone marrow is the soft, spongy tissue found inside most bones. It
helps make blood cells.

Plasma cells help your body fight infection by producing proteins called
antibodies. With multiple myeloma, plasma cells grow out of control in the
bone marrow and form tumors in the areas of solid bone. The growth of these
bone tumors weakens the solid bones. It also makes it harder for the bone
marrow to make healthy blood cells and platelets.

## Causes

The cause of multiple myeloma is unknown. Past treatment with radiation
therapy increases the risk for this type of cancer. Multiple myeloma mainly
affects older adults.

## Symptoms

Multiple myeloma most commonly causes:

    * Low red blood cell count (anemia), which can lead to fatigue and shortness of breath
    * Low white blood cell count, which makes you more likely to get infections
    * Low platelet count, which can lead to abnormal bleeding

As the cancer cells grow in the bone marrow, you may have bone pain, most
often in the ribs or back.

The cancer cells can weaken bones. As a result:

    * You may develop broken bones (bone fractures) just from doing normal activities.
    * If cancer grows in the spine bones, it can press on the nerves. This can lead to numbness or weakness of the arms or legs.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Blood tests can help diagnose this disease. These tests include:

    * Albumin level
    * Calcium level
    * Total protein level
    * Kidney function
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Immunofixation
    * Quantitative nephelometry
    * Serum protein electrophoresis 

Bone x-rays, CT scans, or MRI may show fractures or hollowed out areas of
bone. If your provider suspects this type of cancer, a bone marrow biopsy will
be performed.

Bone density testing may show bone loss.

If tests show that you have multiple myeloma, more tests will be done to see
how far the cancer has spread. This is called staging. Staging helps guide
treatment and follow-up.

## Treatment

People who have mild disease or in whom the diagnosis is not certain are
usually closely monitored. Some people have a form of multiple myeloma that
grows slowly (smoldering myeloma), which takes years to cause symptoms.

Various types of medicines are used to treat multiple myeloma. They are most
often given to prevent complications such as bone fractures and kidney damage.

Radiation therapy may be used to relieve bone pain or to shrink a tumor that
is pushing on the spinal cord.

AÂ bone marrow transplant may be recommended:

    * An autologous bone marrow or stem cell transplantation is performed using a person's own stem cells.
    * An allogeneic transplant uses someone else's stem cells. This treatment has serious risks, but may offer the chance of a cure. 

You and your provider may need to manage other concerns during your treatment,
including:

    * Having chemotherapy at home
    * Managing your pets
    * Bleeding problems
    * Dry mouth
    * Eating enough calories
    * Safe eatingÂ during cancer treatment 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the person's age and the stage of disease. In some cases,
the disease progresses very rapidly. In other cases, it takes years for
symptoms to appear.

In general, multiple myeloma is treatable, but only in rare cases can it be
cured.

## Possible Complications

Kidney failure is a frequent complication. Others may include:

    * Bone fractures
    * High level of calcium in the blood, which can be very dangerous
    * Increased chances for infection, especially in the lungs
    * Anemia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have multiple myeloma and you develop an infection,
or numbness, loss of movement, or loss of sensation.

## Alternative Names

Plasma cell dyscrasia; Plasma cell myeloma; Malignant plasmacytoma;
Plasmacytoma of bone; Myeloma - multiple

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge

## Images

    * ![Cryoglobulinemia of the fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1518t.jpg)Cryoglobulinemia of the fingers
    * ![Immune system structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8932t.jpg)Immune system structures
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

National Cancer Institute website. PDQ plasma cell neoplasms (including
multiple myeloma) treatment. www.cancer.gov/types/myeloma/hp/myeloma-
treatment-pdq. Updated July 19, 2019. Accessed February 13, 2020.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology: multiple myeloma. Version 2.2020.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/myeloma.pdf. Updated October 9,
2019. Accessed February 13, 2020.

Rajkumar SV, Dispenzieri A. Multiple myeloma and related disorders. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloffâs Clinical Oncology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
101.

## Review Date 2/6/2020

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Multiple
Myeloma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MultipleMyeloma_thumb.jpg)Multiple
Myeloma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

