Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000986.htm    
                                Description: Peritonsillar abscess is a collection of infected material in the area around the tonsils.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peritonsillar abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000986.htm

# Peritonsillar abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peritonsillar abscess is a collection of infected material in the area around
the tonsils.

## Causes

Peritonsillar abscess is a complication of tonsillitis. It is most often
caused by a type of bacteria called group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus.

Peritonsillar abscess most often occurs in older children, adolescents, and
young adults. The condition is rare now that antibiotics are used to treat
tonsillitis.

## Symptoms

One or both tonsils become infected. The infection most often spreads to
around the tonsil. It can then spread down into the neck and chest. Swollen
tissues can block the airway. This is a life-threatening medical emergency.

The abscess can break open (rupture) into the throat. The content of the
abscess can travel into the lungs and cause pneumonia.

Symptoms of peritonsillar abscess include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Severe throat pain that is usually on one side
    * Ear pain on the side of the abscess
    * Difficulty opening the mouth, and pain with opening the mouth
    * Swallowing problems
    * Drooling or inability to swallow saliva
    * Facial or neck swelling
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Muffled voice
    * Tender glands of the jaw and throat 

## Exams and Tests

An exam of the throat often shows swelling on one side and on the roof of the
mouth.

The uvula in the back of the throat may be shifted away from the swelling. The
neck and throat may be red and swollen on one or both sides.

The following tests may be done:

    * Aspiration of the abscess using a needle
    * CT scan
    * Fiber optic endoscopy to check if the airway is blocked

## Treatment

The infection can be treated with antibiotics if it is caught early. If an
abscess has developed, it will need to be drained with a needle or by cutting
it open. You will be given pain medicine before this is done.

If the infection is very severe, the tonsils will be removed at the same time
the abscess is drained, but this is rare. In this case, you will have general
anesthesia so you will be asleep and pain-free.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Peritonsillar abscess goes away with treatment in most cases. The infection
may return in the future.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Airway obstruction
    * Cellulitis of the jaw, neck, or chest
    * Endocarditis (rare)
    * Fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion)
    * Inflammation around the heart (pericarditis)
    * Pneumonia
    * Sepsis (infection in the blood)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider right away if you have had tonsillitis and you
develop symptoms of peritonsillar abscess.

Call your provider if you have:

    * Breathing problems
    * Trouble swallowing
    * Pain in the chest
    * Persistent fever
    * Symptoms that get worse 

## Prevention

Quick treatment of tonsillitis, especially if it is caused by bacteria, may
help prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

Quinsy; Abscess - peritonsillar; Tonsillitis - abscess

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy

## References

Melio FR. Upper respiratory tract infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 65.

Meyer A. Pediatric infectious disease. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 197.

Pappas DE, Hendley JO. Retropharyngeal abscess, lateral pharyngeal
(parapharyngeal) abscess, and peritonsillar cellulitis/abscess. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 382.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tonsillitis_thumb.jpg)Tonsillitis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

