Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000229.htm    
                                Description: Your child may have throat infections and need surgery to remove the tonsils (tonsillectomy). These glands are located at the back of the throat. The tonsils and the adenoid glands can be removed at the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tonsil removal - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000229.htm

# Tonsil removal - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child may have throat infections and need surgery to remove the tonsils
(tonsillectomy). These glands are located at the back of the throat. The
tonsils and the adenoid glands can be removed at the same time. The adenoid
glands are located above the tonsils, in the back of the nose.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your child's health care provider
to care for your child after surgery.

## Questions

Questions to ask about having tonsillectomy:

    * Why does my child need a tonsillectomy?
    * Are there other treatments that can be tried? Is it safe not to get tonsils removed?
    * Can my child still get strep throat and other throat infections after tonsillectomy? 
    * Can my child still have sleep problems after tonsillectomy?

Questions to ask about the surgery:

    * Where is the surgery done? How long does it take?
    * What type of anesthesia will my child need? Will my child feel any pain?
    * What are the risks of the surgery?
    * When does my child need to stop eating or drinking before the anesthesia? What if my child is breastfeeding?
    * When do my child and I need to arrive on the day of the surgery? 

Questions for after tonsillectomy:

    * Will my child be able to go home on the same day as surgery?
    * What type of symptoms will my child have while they are healing from surgery?
    * Will my child be able to eat normally when we get home? Are there foods that will be easier for my child to eat or drink? Are there foods that my child should avoid?
    * What should I give my child to help with pain after the surgery?
    * What should I do if my child has any bleeding?
    * Will my child be able to do normal activities? How long will it be before my child is back to full strength? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about tonsil removal; Tonsillectomy - what to ask your
doctor

## Images

    * ![Tonsillectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8973t.jpg)Tonsillectomy

## References

Friedman NR, Yoon PJ. Pediatric adenotonsillar disease, sleep disordered
breathing and obstructive sleep apnea. In: Scholes MA, Ramakrishnan VR, eds.
_ENT Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

Mitchell RB, Archer SM, Ishman SL, et al. Clinical practice guideline:
tonsillectomy in children (Update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_.
2019;160(1_suppl):S1-S42. PMID: 30798778 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30798778.

Wetmore RF. Tonsils and adenoids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 411.

Wilson J. Ear, nose and throat surgery. In: Garden OJ, Parks RW, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 26.

## Read More

    * Adenoid removal
    * Tonsillectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Tonsillitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

