Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000155.htm    
                                Description: Your child had surgery to remove the adenoid glands in the throat. These glands are located between the airway between the nose and the back of the throat. Often, adenoids are removed at the same time    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000155.htm

# Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had surgery to remove the adenoid glands in the throat. These
glands are located between the airway between the nose and the back of the
throat. Often, adenoids are removed at the same time as the tonsils
(tonsillectomy).

## What to Expect at Home

Complete recovery takes about 2 weeks. If only the adenoids are removed, the
recovery most often takes only a few days. Your child will have pain or
discomfort that will get better slowly. Your child's tongue, mouth, throat, or
jaw may be sore from the surgery.

While healing, your child may have:

    * Nose stuffiness
    * Drainage from the nose, which may be bloody
    * Ear pain
    * Sore throat
    * Bad breath
    * Slight fever for 1 to 2 days after surgery
    * Swelling of the uvula in the back of the throat 

## Self-care

If there is bleeding in the throat and mouth, have your child spit out the
blood instead of swallowing it.

Try soft foods and cool drinks to ease throat pain, such as:

    * Jell-O and pudding
    * Pasta, mashed potatoes, and cream of wheat
    * Applesauce
    * Low-fat ice cream, yogurt, sherbet, and popsicles
    * Smoothies
    * Scrambled eggs
    * Cool soup
    * Water and juice

Foods and drinks to avoid are:

    * Orange and grapefruit juice and other drinks that contain a lot of acid.
    * Hot and spicy foods.
    * Rough foods like raw crunchy vegetables and cold cereal.
    * Dairy products that are high in fat. They may increase mucus and make it hard to swallow. 

Your child's health care provider will probably prescribe pain drugs for your
child to use as needed.

Avoid drugs that contain aspirin. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is a good choice for
pain after surgery. Ask your child's provider if it is OK for your child to
take acetaminophen.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if your child has:

    * Low-grade fever that does not go away or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).
    * Bright red blood coming from the mouth or nose. If bleeding is severe, take your child to the emergency room or call 911.
    * Vomiting and there is a lot of blood.
    * Breathing problems. If breathing problems are severe, take your child to the emergency room or call 911.
    * Nausea and vomiting that continues 24 hours after surgery.
    * Inability to swallow food or liquid.

## Alternative Names

Adenoidectomy - discharge; Removal of adenoid glands - discharge;
Tonsillectomy - discharge

## References

Goldstein NA. Evaluation and management of pediatric obstructive sleep apnea.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head
and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 184.

Wetmore RF. Tonsils and adenoids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 383.

## Read More

    * Adenoid removal
    * Enlarged adenoids
    * Obstructive sleep apnea - adults
    * Otitis media with effusion
    * Tonsillectomy
    * Tonsillitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Tonsil removal - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Adenoids
    * Tonsillitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

