Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003013.htm    
                                Description: Tonsillectomy is a surgery to remove the tonsils.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tonsillectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003013.htm

# Tonsillectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tonsillectomy is a surgery to remove the tonsils.

The tonsils are glands at the back of your throat. The tonsils are often
removed along with the adenoid glands. That surgery is called adenoidectomy
and is most often done in children.

![Tonsillectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8973.jpg)

## Description

The surgery is done while the child is under general anesthesia. Your child
will be asleep and pain-free.

    * The surgeon will place a small tool into your child's mouth to hold it open.
    * The surgeon then cuts, burns, or shaves away the tonsils. The wounds heal naturally without stitches. 

After surgery, your child will stay in the recovery room until he or she is
awake and can breathe easily, cough, and swallow. Most children go home
several hours after this surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The tonsils help protect against infections. But children with large tonsils
may have problems breathing at night. The tonsils may also trap excess
bacteria which can lead to frequent or very painful sore throats. In either of
these cases, the child's tonsils have become more harmful than protective.

You and your child's health care provider may consider a tonsillectomy if:

    * Your child has infections often (7 or more times in 1 year, or 5 or more times over 2 years).
    * Your child misses a lot of school.
    * Your child has trouble breathing and does not sleep well because the tonsils block the airway (sleep apnea).
    * Your child has an abscess or a growth on the tonsils.

## Risks

The risks for any anesthesia are:

    * Reaction to medicines
    * Breathing problems

The risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Rarely, bleeding after surgery can go unnoticed and cause very bad problems.
Swallowing a lot may be a sign of bleeding from the tonsils.

Another risk includes injury to the uvula (soft palate).

## Before the Procedure

Your child's provider may ask your child to have:

    * Blood tests (complete blood count, electrolytes, and clotting factors)
    * A physical exam and medical history

Always tell your child's provider what drugs your child is taking. Include any
drugs, herbs, or vitamins you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * Ten days before the surgery, your child may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), warfarin (Coumadin), and other drugs like these.
    * Ask your child's provider which drugs your child should still take on the day of the surgery.

On the day of the surgery:

    * Your child will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for several hours before the surgery.
    * Give your child any drugs you have been told to give with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

A tonsillectomy is most often done in a hospital or surgery center. Your child
will go home the same day as the surgery. Children rarely need to stay
overnight in the hospital for observation.

Complete recovery takes about 1 to 2 weeks. During the first week, your child
should avoid people who are sick. It will be easier for your child to become
infected during this time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After surgery, the number of throat infections is most often lower, but your
child may still get some.

## Alternative Names

Tonsils removal; Tonsillitis - tonsillectomy; Pharyngitis - tonsillectomy;
Sore throat - tonsillectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge
    * Tonsil removal - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Tonsillectomy - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12709t.jpg)Tonsillectomy - series

## References

Goldstein NA. Evaluation and management of pediatric obstructive sleep apnea.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head &
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 184.

Wetmore RF. Tonsils and adenoids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 383.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tonsillitis_thumb.jpg)Tonsillitis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

