Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001043.htm    
                                Description: Tonsillitis is inflammation (swelling) of the tonsils.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tonsillitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001043.htm

# Tonsillitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tonsillitis is inflammation (swelling) of the tonsils.

## Causes

The tonsils are lymph nodes in the back of the mouth and top of the throat.
They help to filter out bacteria and other germs to prevent infection in the
body.

A bacterial or viral infection can cause tonsillitis. Strep throat is a common
cause.

![Strep throat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19694.jpg)

The infection may also be seen in other parts of the throat. One such
infection is called pharyngitis.

Tonsillitis is very common in children.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms may be:

    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Ear pain
    * Fever and chills
    * Headache
    * Sore throat, which lasts longer than 48 hours and may be severe
    * Tenderness of the jaw and throat 

Other problems or symptoms that may occur are:

    * Problems breathing, if the tonsils are very large
    * Problems eating or drinking 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look in the mouth and throat.

    * The tonsils may be red and may have white spots on them.
    * The lymph nodes in the jaw and neck may be swollen and tender to the touch. 

A rapid strep test can be done in most providers' offices. However, this test
may be normal, and you can still have strep. Your provider may send the throat
swab to a laboratory for a strep culture. Test results can take a few days.

## Treatment

Swollen tonsils that are not painful or do not cause other problems do not
need to be treated. Your provider may not give you antibiotics. You may be
asked to come back for a checkup later.

If tests show you do have strep, your provider will give you antibiotics. It
is important to finish all of your antibiotics as directed, even if you feel
better. If you do not take them all, the infection can return.

The following tips may help your throat feel better:

    * Drink cold liquids or suck on fruit-flavored frozen bars.
    * Drink fluids, and mostly warm (not hot), bland fluids.
    * Gargle with warm salt water.
    * Suck on lozenges (containing benzocaine or similar ingredients) to reduce pain (these should not be used in young children because of the choking risk).
    * Take over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen to reduce pain and fever. DO NOT give a child aspirin. Aspirin has been linked to Reye syndrome. 

Some people who have repeated infections may need surgery to remove the
tonsils (tonsillectomy).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Tonsillitis symptoms due to strep will often get better within 2 or 3 days
after you start the antibiotics.

Children with strep throat should be kept home from school or day care until
they have been on antibiotics for 24 hours. This helps reduce the spread of
illness.

## Possible Complications

Complications from strep throat may be severe. TheyÂ may include:

    * Abscess in the area around the tonsils
    * Kidney disease caused by strep
    * Rheumatic fever and other heart problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if there is:

    * Excess drooling in a young child
    * Fever, particularly 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher
    * Pus in the back of the throat
    * Red rash that feels rough, and increased redness in the skin folds
    * Severe problems swallowing or breathing
    * Tender or swollen lymph glands in the neck 

## Alternative Names

Sore throat - tonsillitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Tonsil and adenoid removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Strep throat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19694t.jpg)Strep throat

## References

Meyer A. Pediatric infectious disease. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 197.

Shulman ST, Bisno AL, Clegg HW, et al. Clinical practice guideline for the
diagnosis and management of group A streptococcal pharyngitis: 2012 update by
the Infectious Diseases Society of America. _Clin Infect Dis_.
2012;55(10):1279-1282. PMID: 23091044 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23091044.

Wetmore RF. Tonsils and adenoids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 383.

Yellon RF, Chi DH. Otolaryngology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ,
eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 24.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tonsillitis_thumb.jpg)Tonsillitis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

