Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001998.htm    
                                Description: Today, many parents wonder if it is wise for children to have the tonsils taken out. Tonsillectomy may be recommended if your child has any of the following:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tonsillectomies and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001998.htm

# Tonsillectomies and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Today, many parents wonder if it is wise for children to have the tonsils
taken out. Tonsillectomy may be recommended if your child has any of the
following:

    * Difficulty swallowing 
    * Obstructed breathing during sleep 
    * Throat infections or throat abscesses that keep returning 

In most cases, inflammation of the tonsils can be successfully treated with
antibiotics. There are always risks associated with surgery.

You and your child's health care provider may consider a tonsillectomy if:

    * Your child has frequent infections (7 or more times in 1 year, 5 or more times over 2 years, or 3 or more times over 3 years).
    * Your child misses a lot of school.
    * Your child snores, has trouble breathing, and has sleep apnea.
    * Your child has an abscess or growth on their tonsils.

## Alternative Names

Children and tonsillectomies

## Images

    * ![Tonsillectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8973t.jpg)Tonsillectomy

## References

Friedman NR, Yoon PJ. Pediatric adenotonsillar disease, sleep disordered
breathing and obstructive sleep apnea. In: Scholes MA, Ramakrishnan VR, eds.
_ENT Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

Goldstein NA. Evaluation and management of pediatric obstructive sleep apnea.
In: Lesperance MM, Flint PW, eds. _Cummings Pediatric Otolaryngology_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 5.

Mitchell RB, Archer SM, Ishman SL, et al. Clinical Practice Guideline:
tonsillectomy in children (update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_.
2019;160(1_suppl):S1-S42. PMID: 30798778 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30798778.

Wetmore RF. Tonsils and adenoids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 411.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tonsillitis_thumb.jpg)Tonsillitis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

