Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000637.htm    
                                Description: Toxoplasmosis is an infection due to the parasite Toxoplasma gondii.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toxoplasmosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000637.htm

# Toxoplasmosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Toxoplasmosis is an infection due to the parasite _Toxoplasma gondii_.

## Causes

Toxoplasmosis is found in humans worldwide and in many kinds of animals and
birds. The parasite also lives in cats.

Human infection may result from:

    * Blood transfusions or solid organ transplants
    * Handling cat litter
    * Eating contaminated soil
    * Eating raw or undercooked meat (lamb, pork, and beef)

Toxoplasmosis also affects people who have weakened immune systems.

The infection may also be passed from an infected mother to her baby through
the placenta. This results in congenital toxoplasmosis.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. If there are symptoms, they usually occur about 1 to
2 weeks after contact with the parasite. The disease can affect the brain,
lung, heart, eyes, or liver.

Symptoms in people with otherwise healthy immune systems can include:

    * Enlarged lymph nodes in the head and neck
    * Headache
    * Fever
    * Mild illness similar to mononucleosis
    * Muscle pain
    * Sore throat 

Symptoms in people with a weakened immune system can include:

    * Confusion
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Blurred vision due to inflammation of the retina
    * Seizures

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests that may be done
include:

    * Blood test for toxoplasmosis
    * CT scan of the head
    * MRI of head
    * Slit lamp exam of the eyes
    * Brain biopsy

## Treatment

People without symptoms usually do not need treatment.

Medicines to treat the infection include an antimalarial drug and antibiotics.
People with AIDS should continue treatment for as long as their immune system
is weak, to prevent the disease from reactivating.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, people with a healthy immune system usually recover well.

## Possible Complications

The disease may return.

In people with a weakened immune system, the infection may spread throughout
the body, leading to death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you develop symptoms of
toxoplasmosis. Medical care is needed right away if symptoms occur in:

    * Infants or babies
    * Someone with a weakened immune system due to certain medicines or disease

Also seek medical treatment right away if the following symptoms occur:

    * Confusion
    * Seizures

## Prevention

Tips for preventing this condition:

    * Do not eat undercooked meat. 
    * Wash hands after handling raw meat. 
    * Keep children's play areas free from cat and dog feces. 
    * Wash your hands thoroughly after touchingÂ soil that may be contaminated with animal feces. 

Pregnant women and those with weakened immune systems should take the
following precautions:

    * Do not clean cat litter boxes.
    * Do not touch anything that may contain cat feces.
    * Do not touch anything thatÂ could be contaminated by insects, such as cockroaches and flies that may be exposed to cat feces.

Pregnant women and those with HIV/AIDS should be screened for toxoplasmosis. A
blood test can be done.

In some cases, medicine to prevent toxoplasmosis may be given.

## Images

    * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam
    * ![Congenital toxoplasmosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17186t.jpg)Congenital toxoplasmosis

## References

Mcleod R, Van Tubbergen C, Boyer KM. Toxoplasmosis ( _Toxoplasma gondii_ ).
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 290.

Montoya JG, Boothroyd JC, Kovacs JA. _Toxoplasma gondii_. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 280.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![HIV/AIDS and
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDSandInfections_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS
and Infections _Read more_

![Toxoplasmosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Toxoplasmosis_thumb.jpg)Toxoplasmosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

