Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001328.htm    
                                Description: Cryptococcosis is infection with the fungi Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cryptococcosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001328.htm

# Cryptococcosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cryptococcosis is infection with the fungi _Cryptococcus neoformans_ and
_Cryptococcus gattii_.

## Causes

_C neoformans_ and _C gattii_ are the fungi that cause this disease. Infection
with _C neoformans_ is seen worldwide. Infection with _C gattii_ has mainly
been seen in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States, British
Columbia in Canada, Southeast Asia, and Australia. Cryptococcus is the most
common fungus that causes serious infection.

Both types of fungi are found in soil. If you breathe the fungus in, it
infects your lungs. The infection may go away on its own, remain in the lungs
only, or spread throughout the body (disseminate). Cryptococcosis is most
often seen in people with a weak immune system, such as those who:

    * Are infected with HIV/AIDS
    * Take high doses of corticosteroid medicines
    * Cancer
    * Are on chemotherapy medicines for cancer
    * Have Hodgkin disease
    * Have had an organ transplant

 _C gattii_ may affect people with normal immune system.

 _C neoformans_ is the most common life-threatening cause of fungal infection
in people with HIV/AIDS.

People between 20 to 40 years of age have this infection.

## Symptoms

The infection may spread to the brain in people who have a weakened immune
system. Neurological (brain) symptoms start slowly. Most people have swelling
and irritation of the brain and spinal cord when they are diagnosed. Symptoms
of brain infection may include:

    * Fever and headache
    * Neck stiffness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Blurred vision or double vision
    * Confusion

The infection can also affect the lungs and other organs. Lung symptoms may
include:

    * Difficulty in breathing
    * Cough
    * Chest pain

Other symptoms may include:

    * Bone pain or tenderness of the breastbone
    * Fatigue
    * Skin rash, including pinpoint red spots (petechiae), ulcers, or other skin lesions
    * Sweating \-- unusual, excessive at night
    * Swollen glands
    * Unintentional weight loss

People with a healthy immune system may have no symptoms at all.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms
and travel history.Â The physical exam may reveal:

    * Abnormal breath sounds
    * Fast heart rate
    * Fever
    * Mental status changes
    * Stiff neck 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood cultureÂ to differentiate between the two fungi
    * CT scan of the head
    * Sputum culture and stain
    * Lung biopsy
    * BronchoscopyÂ and bronchoalveolar lavage
    * Spinal tap to obtain a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
    * Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture and other tests to check for signs of infection
    * Chest x-ray
    * Cryptococcal antigen test (looks for a certain molecule that is shed from the cell wall of theÂ _Cryptococcus neoformans_ fungus into the bloodstream or CSF) 

## Treatment

Some infections require no treatment. Even so, there should be regular
checkups for a full year to make sure the infection has not spread. If there
are lung lesions or the disease spreads, your provider will prescribe you
antifungal medicines. These medicines may need to be taken for a long time.

Medicines include:

    * Amphotericin B (can have severe side effects)
    * Flucytosine
    * Fluconazole

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Central nervous system involvement often causes death or leads to permanent
damage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of cryptococcosis, especially if
you have a weakened immune system.

## Alternative Names

C. neoformans var. neoformans infection; C. neoformans var. gatti infection;
C. neoformans var. grubii infection

## Images

    * ![Cryptococcus - cutaneous on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1382t.jpg)Cryptococcus - cutaneous on the hand
    * ![Cryptococcosis on the forehead](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2381t.jpg)Cryptococcosis on the forehead
    * ![Fungus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9485t.jpg)Fungus

## References

Kauffman CA. Cryptococcosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 336.

Perfect JR. Cryptococcosis (Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii).
In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 264.

Robles WS, Ameen M. Cryptococcosis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J,
Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 49.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![HIV/AIDS and
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDSandInfections_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS
and Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

