Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000674.htm    
                                Description: Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a rare infection that damages the material (myelin) that covers and protects nerves in the white matter of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000674.htm

# Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a rare infection that
damages the material (myelin) that covers and protects nerves in the white
matter of the brain.

## Causes

The John Cunningham virus, or JC virus (JCV) causes PML. By age 10, most
people have been infected with this virus though it hardly ever causes
symptoms. But, people with a weakened immune system are at risk of developing
PML. Causes of a weakened immune system include:

    * HIV/AIDS (less common cause of PML now because of better management of HIV/AIDS).
    * Certain medicines that suppress the immune system. Such medicines may be used to prevent organ transplant rejection or to treat multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune disorders, and related conditions.
    * Cancers, such as leukemia and Hodgkin lymphoma. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Loss of coordination, clumsiness 
    * Loss of language ability (aphasia) 
    * Memory loss 
    * Vision problems 
    * Weakness of the legs and arms that gets worse 
    * Personality changes

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms.

Tests may include:

    * Brain biopsy (in rare cases)
    * Cerebrospinal fluid test for the JCV
    * CT scan of the brain
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * MRI of the brain

## Treatment

In people with HIV/AIDS, treatment to strengthen the immune system can lead to
recovery from the symptoms of PML. No other treatments have proved effective
for PML.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

PML is a life-threatening condition. Depending on how severe the infection is,
up to one half of people diagnosed with PML die within the first few
months.Talk to your provider about care decisions.

## Alternative Names

PML; John Cunningham virus; JCV

## Images

    * ![Gray and white matter of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18117t.jpg)Gray and white matter of the brain
    * ![Leukoencephalopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18144t.jpg)Leukoencephalopathy

## References

Berger JR, Nath A. Cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, and slow virus
infections of the central nervous system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 370.

Tan CS, Koralnik IJ. JC, BK, and other polyomaviruses: progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy (PML). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 147.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Degenerative Nerve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DegenerativeNerveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Degenerative
Nerve Diseases _Read more_

![HIV/AIDS and
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDSandInfections_thumb.jpg)HIV/AIDS
and Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

